France school shooting: Teenage boy arrested after four hurt - BBC News
These are external links and will open in a new window
These are external links and will open in a new window
A school shooting, which left three students and a headteacher wounded, appears to have been a "crazy act" carried out by a teenager obsessed with firearms, France's education minister has said.The 17-year-old suspect opened fire at Tocqueville high school, in Grasse, at about 12:40 local time (11:40 GMT).More people were injured in the ensuing panic.Anti-terrorist commandos from the elite Raid force were sent to the scene.The suspect, who was reportedly armed with a rifle, two handguns and two hand grenades, was arrested "very quickly" after launching the attack.
Education Minister Najat Vallaud-Belkacem told reporters on Thursday afternoon the suspect was "fragile"."It was a crazy act by a youth who is unstable and fascinated by guns," she said, going on to praise the headmaster's actions during the attack as "heroic".
According to Ms Vallaud-Belkacem, the headteacher tried to reason with the gunman, seemingly stopping the rampage in its tracks."We missed out on the worst," she said.A student had earlier told local newspaper Nice Matin how the headteacher, named by the newspaper as Herve Pizzinat, had remained "cool", continuing to try to calm the suspect down even after he had been shot in the arm."He kept trying to bring him back to reason," the student said.One student reported hearing four gunshots, while others described the panic in the moments after the attack began. Ten students were treated for shock or minor injuries caused as they tried to flee the shooter, according to the education secretary.No-one was critically hurt. The headteacher had gunshot wounds, while the students were being treated for buckshot wounds.
At least two people were injured, one reported to be the school's headteacher
Initial conflicting reports suggested there may have been a second shooter, but it appears this is not the case, although earlier on Thursday interior ministry spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet said they had not ruled it out entirely and were still "searching for a possible second perpetrator". The local prosecutor has confirmed the shooting had "no link" to terrorism. Instead, it is thought the student had bad relations with his classmates.However, President Francois Hollande said France should remain "vigilant" and stay under a state of emergency.Grasse, the capital of France's perfume industry, is about 44km (27 miles) from the city of Nice, where a lorry attack in July killed 86 people. France remains under a state of emergency after a string of deadly attacks in the past 18 months.
Are you in the area? If it is safe to do so, share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:
Send an SMS or MMS to 61124 or +44 7624 800 100
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can
contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as
you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published.
When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others,
take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
There are "no indications" that Trump Tower was bugged last year, say intelligence leaders.
Copyright © 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
