More March Comebacks And Debuts To Get Excited For | Soompi
The K-pop world will be just as busy in the second half of March as it was in the first. In particular, there are lots of male groups and solo artists sharing new music!
See Also: MONSTA X Members Reveal 1st Place Promises For "Jealousy"
Check out the exciting comebacks, debuts, and releases on the way below.
UP10TION’s comeback will be on March 15 with their first full album “Invitation,” featuring the title track “Candyland.” They will be returning as a 10-member group, complete with Wooshin after his hiatus due to health issues.
A.C.E will also be releasing a special digital single entitled “5TAR” at noon KST that day.
Wanna One is making a return on March 19 with their mini album “0+1=1 (I PROMISE YOU),” including the title track “Boomerang.” The group already topped charts with their pre-release song “I.P.U.”
SEVENTEEN’s first special unit BSS (featuring members Seungkwan, DK, and Hoshi) will be releasing their single “Just Do It” on March 21.
Highlight’s Yong Junhyung will share a new digital single on March 22, featuring 10cm’s Kwon Jung Yeol.
Shinhwa is gifting fans with a remake of their track “All Your Dreams” on March 26 to celebrate their 20th anniversary.
MONSTA X will make a comeback that day with their new release “The Connect.”
JYP Entertainment’s new boy group Stray Kids is also debuting on March 26 with their first mini album “I Am NOT” and the title track “District 9.”
Hoya (Lee Ho Won) will be making a solo debut on his birthday March 28 with his mini album “Shower” after sharing the pre-release track “Angel.”
Samuel is set to release his second mini album “ONE” that day.
Jung Joon Young will share his new solo single “Fiancée” on March 29.
WINNER has also announced that they’ll be making a comeback soon, and posted a first teaser (Update: WINNER has now revealed that their new album will be out on April 4!).
TVXQ is aiming for a return in March, although a date hasn’t been officially confirmed yet.
DreamCatcher also announced earlier this year that they were planning for a comeback in March.
Watch: Tiffany Reveals MV For Cover Of “Remember Me” And Launches Social Media Channels
Latest StoriesBIGBANG’s Seungri Explains How He Introduces Korean Food To International FriendsSamuel Talks About Taking On A More Mature Concept For His ComebackYoon Shi Yoon To Release Special Song For FansEXO-CBX Flies To Japan For Group’s New Reality ShowWatch: EXO’s Xiumin, Wanna One’s Kang Daniel, And More Charm In “It’s Dangerous Beyond The Blankets” TeaserWatch: GOT7 Celebrates 27 Million MV Views With “Boyfriend Version” Of “Look”Jung Ryeo Won Becomes Promotional Ambassador For Women’s Rights CampaignBrand New Music Takes Legal Action For Malicious Comments On Wanna One’s Park Woo Jin And Lee Dae Hwi
