Beirut's moody nightspot 2 WEEKS coalesces industrial with luxury in an immersive experience for the city's club-goers...
Set over a single level, Beirut’s hedonists and trendsetters are descending upon new nightclub 2 WEEKS, as light, materiality, and a moody visual language coalesce to create an experiential experience for club-goers.
Located in Biel, overlooking the city’s sea port, Rabih Geha Architects created a webbed black steel shell to house a bar, DJ booth, and seating areas. Containing a large part of the club, this shell, a ‘shell within a shell’ forms the basis of Geha’s concept of viewing another world from the inside, the outer shell—raw with damaged walls—remains visible, an integral part of the destination where guests socialise in a chill out bar.
“The concept is about offering the club goers an immersive experience within an interior shell created to envelope the crowd, all the while still filtering out to the outside via the mesh,” explains the architect, “it creates a sense of discharge. The path to the main space, which is the outside bar, is one of discovery, forming a palette of experiences before entering it.” Based on the notion of containment without caging, RG/Architects worked closely with the team at Addmind Group; the client well-respected for their innovative approach to nightlife.
As visitors move around the shell, they switch between luxurious and industrial interiors, linear light elements encouraging playful interaction and movement without limits. Renowned for their use of light, Geha’s practice set the mood dial to semi-dystopian futurism, completing an immersive experience for Beirut style-conscious ravers.
Ilse Cornelissens of Antwerp's Graanmarkt 13 talks us through the evolution of their concept...
New book turns the knob and enters the private life of an unrivalled outsider art pioneer...
Photobook Both Sides of Sunset shows the compelling contrasts of Los Angeles...
Eat Sleep Rave Create: how club culture will forever be intrinsically linked to art, design, architecture, and creativity...
Club culture as we know it today began with the emergence of nightclubs as spaces for experimentation with interior design, new media, and alternative lifestyles throughout the 1960s; from architect Charles Forberg's NYC counterculture venue The...
From airport duty free to virtual reality disco, is this what the future of nightlife looks like?
You don't expect to begin thinking about the future of nightlife — of technology, of bleeding-edge club music, of raving your limbs off — in an airport duty free at 5am. Perhaps the international DJ elite do; passing through terminal after...
The good times keep rolling as famed Paris nightclub Les Bains re-opens as luxury hotel...
François Auguste Guerbois was the host with the most in 19th Century Paris. His Café Guerbois was frequented by the city's great artists and intellectuals, and when he opened a private bathhouse — Les Grands Bains Guerbois, in 1885 — it...
Studio 54 had to be seen to be believed, we spoke to the man whose photographs mean you now can...
Give any hedonist worth their hydrochloride salts the chance to revisit the great nightclubs of history, and I'd wager the majority would make their first stop on the timewarp in late 1970s New York, and the cultural phenomenon that was Studio...
string(186) "@francomancapizz welcomed Italy’s youngest Michelin-starred chef, @carusa_m, into their King’s Cross kitchen last night, and the results were incredible. See more on our stories 🤤"
string(337) "Away from Gaudí’s modernista masterpieces, Barcelona is home to plenty more gems from the architectural ages. Based on the utopian housing projects of pioneers like Le Corbusier, @bofillarquitectura’s Walden 7—built between 1974 and ‘75 on the city’s outskirts—is one of Barcelona’s most staggering contemporary buildings."
string(135) "Seriously cool space alert: @mecanic.barcelona is a gallery cum coffee shop cum bookstore in Gracia, and it is very very lovely.⠀
Stay in the loop: sign up for List, our weekly email newsletter.
Rostov-on-Don's Like Shop Showroom is a riotous romp through colour and texture that guarantees immediate Instagram success...
Made up of two spaces and lashings of colour, Like Shop Showroom is located in the southern Russia city—this part of the country's largest and most cosmopolitan—of Rostov-on-Don and attracts local fashionistas and the Instagram set in search of...
Serenity and calm on the Riviera Maya, Belmond Maroma is a luxury resort where stress knows no place...
Spying the Caribbean's dazzling turquoise in the near distance whilst being handed an ice-cold margarita made with Xtabentún—an anise liqueur from the surrounding Yucatán region—you realise here, set between sea and lush jungle, that you can...
As London’s Orrery comes of age with 21st birthday refit, we discover that its classical essence remains...
London's Orrery—an iconic restaurant in the heart of the city's posh Marylebone neighbourhood—celebrated its 21st anniversary this February, an elegant facelift by designer David D'Almada of acclaimed studio Sagrada its birthday gift to...
Old school elegance and ornate interiors bring the colourful heritage of Soho icon Kettner's back to life...
Recently opened Kettner’s Townhouse is a restaurant and champagne bar with 33 rooms. It is the latest Soho House Group manifestation, and the first stand-alone hotel and restaurant open entirely to the public. The group's members' club feel...
