New Kasich ad: If Trump becomes president, ‘you better hope there’s someone left to help you’ - The Washington Post
It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.
stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
New Kasich ad: If Trump becomes president, ‘you better hope there’s someone left to help you’
stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
The presidential campaign for Ohio Gov. John Kasich released an ad drawing a comparison between Donald Trump's rhetoric and Nazism. (John Kasich)
The gloves are off in the fight between John Kasich and Donald Trump. Well, technically they've been off since last Friday. But the Kasich campaign released a Web ad Tuesday directly attacked Trump with a darker tone than any other candidate has used so far to go after the business mogul. The spot features retired Air Force Col. Tom Moe speaking at an event in Ohio, the same day Trump held a rally in Columbus. Moe, who the Kasich campaign identifies as a former Vietnam POW, paraphrases a quote from Protestant pastor Martin Niemöller, taken from his lectures after World War II. [Editor's note: This post is from November 2015. Here are some stories from today:
-Leaked emails aside, the DNC is a long-standing problem -Trump is expanding his Muslim ban, not rolling it back -Debbie Wasserman Schultz's Worst Week in Washington] "You might not care if Donald Trump says Muslims should register with their government, because you're not one," says Moe, to an ominous soundtrack. "And you might not care if Donald Trump says he's going to round up all the Hispanic immigrants, because you're not one. And you might not care if Donald Trump says it's okay to rough up black protesters, because you're not one. And you might not care if Donald Trump wants to suppress journalists, because you're not one. But think about this: If he keeps going, and he actually becomes president, he might just get around to you. And you better hope there's someone left to help you." The new spot came just a day after both the campaign and the super PAC supporting Kasich released a pair of spots attacking the GOP front-runner -- and hours after the candidates' latest Twitter spat:
Going to Ohio, home of one of the worst presidential candidates in history--Kasich. Can't debate, loves #ObamaCare--dummy! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 23, 2015
Later Monday, Kasich wound up a day-long anti-Trump tweetstorm with a challenge:
A bully never expects anyone to fight back. And tonight you saw what happens when we did. See you on the trail, Mr. Trump. — John Kasich (@JohnKasich) November 24, 2015
Former Secretary of State Colin Powell  “General Powell said at a meeting of the Long Island Association that he would be voting for Hillary Clinton,” a spokeswoman confirmed Oct. 25. Powell added in an interview that he picked Clinton “because I think she’s qualified, and the other gentleman is not qualified.” Nikki Kahn/The Washington Post
post-politics Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas false endOfArticle false
post-politics Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false
Sarah Parnass is the politics video editor for The Washington Post. Before joining the Post, she wrote about politics for ABC News Digital.
During his political rise, Stephen K. Bannon was a man with no fixed address
GOP congressman offers strange Obama conspiracy theory — and even stranger explanations
The Washington Redskins hit a new low this week. And that’s saying something.
Preet Bharara said he wanted to be a U.S. attorney ‘forever.’ Well, he was just fired.
Inside 'Trump Revealed' Read stories based on reporting for “Trump Revealed,” a broad, comprehensive biography of the life of the president. Reporting archive: Trump’s financial records, depositions and interview transcripts
washingtonpost.com © 1996-2017 The Washington Post   Help and Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices
