Despite an RNC platform that is overwhelmingly anti-gay, Donald Trump in his speech on Thursday mentioned the Orlando massacre and said that he "will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of the hateful, foreign ideology, believe me," in reference to fundamentalist Islamic.
The line was met with loud applause from the presumably conservative crowd and Trump noted, "I have to say, as a Republican, it is so nice to hear you cheering for what I just said, thank you."
Donald Trump has officially weighed in on Hillary Clinton's acceptance speech. It appears he didn't like it. The GOP nominee posted the following on Facebook on Friday morning:
Hillary Clinton’s speech was an insulting collection of clichés and recycled rhetoric. She spent the evening talking down to the American people she’s looked down on her whole life.Hillary Clinton talks about unity, about E Pluribus Unum, but her globalist agenda denies American citizens the protections to which they are all entitled – tearing us apart. Her radical amnesty plan will take jobs, resources and benefits from the most vulnerable citizens of the United States and give them to the citizens of other countries. Her refusal to even say the words ‘Radical Islam’, or to mention her disaster in Libya, or her corrupt email scheme, all show how little she cares about the safety of the American people.It’s a speech delivered from a fantasy universe, not the reality we live in today.Hillary Clinton says America is stronger together. But in Hillary Clinton’s America, millions of people are left out in the cold. She only stands together with the donors and special interests who’ve bankrolled her entire life. Excluded from Hillary Clinton’s America are the suffering people living in our inner cities, or the victims of open borders and drug cartels, or the people who’ve lost their jobs because of the Clintons’ trade deals, or any hardworking person who doesn’t have enough money to get a seat at Hillary Clinton’s table.
Donald Trump, who once promised a "monumentally magnificent" and "brilliantly staged" Republican convention, now says he wasn't really involved with producing the event.
"I didn't produce our show," Trump told the New York Times' Jim Rutenberg when asked about how it differed from the Democratic convention. "I just showed up for the final speech on Thursday."
The GOP nominee says he's happy with how things turned out, even if he wasn't the master planner.
"I thought our stage in Cleveland was much more beautiful," Trump said at a campaign event in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Thursday night. "I also liked my children better than their stars." (Trump's kids — Donald Jr., Ivanka, Eric and Tiffany — all spoke during primetime.)
Trump told the Washington Post in April that he would inject some "showbiz" into the GOP convention, but his campaign managed to attract only a few celebrities to appear at the event.
The Clinton campaign has used a number of Donald Trump’s comments on national security against him in ads and on the campaign trail. And she hammered it home during her nomination speech.
“Now Donald Trump says, and this is a quote, ‘I know more about ISIS than the generals do.’ No, Donald, you don't,” she said.
Clinton has used Trump’s temperament as proof he is unfit to be commander in chief. And she used his social media musings to make the point on Thursday.
"A man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons," she said.
Clinton: He spoke for "seventy-odd minutes -- and I do mean odd"
Running through a litany of policy goals, including equal pay for equal work, affordable health care, a higher living wage and expanding Social Security, Clinton said like-minded voters should "join us!"
It was an attempt to reach out to Sanders supporters, #NeverTrumpers and the apolitical.
"Whatever party you belong to, or if you belong to no party at all, if you share these beliefs, this is your campaign," she said.
Hillary Clinton drew raucous applause when she acknowledged the historic nature of her presidential run.
“Tonight, we've reached a milestone in our nation's march toward a more perfect union: the first time that a major party has nominated a woman for President,” she said.
Female leadership has been a major theme of the DNC’s convention. Clinton added that her nomination isn’t just a benchmark for females.
She said she was also happy for men “because when any barrier falls in America, for anyone, it clears the way for everyone.  When there are no ceilings, the sky's the limit.”
'Carlos the Jackal' Faces Trial Over 1974 Attack on Paris Mall
Two Die in Stampede as 350,000 Fans Show Up for Rock Concert
'I Stole to Feed My Family. ISIS Cut My Hand Off'
