Whoopi Goldberg: Navy SEAL Widow was "Looking for Attention" | The Underground Reportarchive.iswebpage captureSaved fromno other snapshots from this url2 Mar 2017 18:54:47 UTCAll snapshotsfrom host undergroundnewsreport.comWebpageScreenshotsharedownload .zipreport error or abuseRedditVoatTwitterVKontaktePinboardLivejournalFacebookGoogle+short linklong linkmarkdownhtml code<a href="http://archive.is/coeba">
Whoopi Goldberg: Navy SEAL Widow was &quot;Looking for Attention&quot; | The Un…<br>
Whoopi Goldberg is in hot water after comments she made Wednesday regarding the Navy SEAL widow that was honored last night during President Donald Trump’s historical speech.
“She was just looking for attention. These military widows love their 15 minutes in the spotlight”, Goldberg said.
“If it were me I wouldn’t be able to leave the house. How can someone who is truly greiving go out there and be on TV. It just doesn’t make sense to me”
After last night’s demonstration where several democrats in leadership roles refused to stand while the widow was being honored, Goldberg continues to make the point that liberals lack a significant amount of class.
1657Like25KSharePeople Also ReadShould Democrats Who Refused to Honor Navy SEAL Widow Be Removed From Office? | The Underground ReportRidiculously Dirty Photos You Can’t UnseeHow Illinois Moms Prevent Teen SextingWhy Women Are Flocking to This Incredible New Shopping SiteLosing Weight Is Easier Than Ever With This Magic FormulaHusband Divorced His Wife After Looking Closer At This PhotoWarning: Don't Use Probiotics Before You See ThisShe Really Gave The Crowd A Show?These content links are provided by
and the web site upon which the links are displayed may receive compensation when readers click on these links. Some of the content you are redirected to may be sponsored content. View our privacy policy here.Family-Friendly ContentWebsite owners select the type of content that appears in our units. However, if you would like to ensure that Content.ad always displays family-friendly content on this device, regardless of what site you are on, check the option below.
to drive visitors to your content or add this service to your site, please contact us at info@content.ad.
Previous articleShould Democrats Who Refused to Honor Navy SEAL Widow Be Removed From Office?
Should Democrats Who Refused to Honor Navy SEAL Widow Be Removed From Office?
I used to like her now she is just a D Bag
So true, Ms. Whoopi! I could not attend anything, or certainly not go ANYWHERE, especially, that I knew I would be spotlighted, for almost a year when my husband passed. I could not even bring myself to attend a ceremony in which he was honored. Barely made it through his funeral and memorial. Couldn’t handle any public displays of affection. It was all too private, too personal, too painful.
I’m not disrespecting this woman. She is just different. Liked the public acclaim or whatever. Strange …..
Trump using her? Not surprising. Would have been nice, or respectful,
certainly Presidential had he accepted responsibility for his action. He didn’t. He is not Presidential. He is a simple narcissist elected illegitimately waiting to be found out. Sad.
You answered your own question! You couldn’t attend an event to honor your deceased spouse? It wasn’t about you! It was about him and you being there to support and honor him! It’s called being selfless!
He was not a soldier but he has been honored so many times by his peers. It’s hard to listen to his music much less listen to him being lauded. But I endure it for him and his memory. Isadora got it wrong probably because she hates Trump….I’m sure her opinion would be the opposite if Hillary was in office. Damn shame people are filled with so much hate!
Ryan owens wife was grief stricken. Her and her husband were honored for their sacrifice. What you did our could do ..well this wasnt you was it? Trump did a great thing by her and him. For whoopee to say such hateful things and then for you to agree shows just how SICK you liberals are. You are nothing but hateful, nasty, scum.
That’s how you handled it. She decided to be stronger than you and stupid whoop. Her husband would have been so disappointed if she had not done what she did. Most people don’t curl up and die on their couch because a loved one had passed, you get your butt back up and push through the heartache and continue to live. Life is too short to live in grief. What a waste of time. You and whoop are weak women who need a swift kick.
And your an idiot. Everyone handles death and grieving differently. I applaud her for carrying on and standing up for husband. He is a true hero and served to make us, this nation, a safer place to live. For there is no “Greater love for man, family, friend, country, than to lay down his life for all”. She also needs to be strong for her little ones. She is also a true patriot!!!
This was a honor for her to go to President Trump speech where the President did honor her hero husband. I believe any widow would of went . You would of been honored to attend correct?
Maybe not everyone is as weak as you are. She went there to honor her husband. Get a life. You are just as evil-minded as ugly Whoopi.
Whoopi I guess you would have been to upset to go out if your husband died. My question. Is that husband one ,two or three?
Well it’s a good thing no one tried to honor your husband as it appears you would not have been a good enough person to go out and allow anyone to do so. She was obviously very grief stricken but wanted to be there to see her husband receive that honor and I respect her more for it. As for Trump taking responsibility for his actions-what are you even referring to? His actions were not what caused this death. In fact the mission in which Owens was killed had been in the works before Trump ever took office. Libtards however seem to like blaming all the bad things that happen on Trump and refuse to say something good or nice. As for Whoopi’s dumbass she wouldn’t know sacrifice if it jumped up and smacked her in the face and she needs to keep her mouth shut instead of running it about someone that she doesn’t know nor deserve to!
I had two young kids, so the option to wallow in my loss Was nil. I had to go to his furneral to celebrate his his life with friends and family. Maybe the Seal’s wife felt the same. Maybe you didn’t get any attention (support) from people who love you. I did! If the President asked her to come to honor her husband. Not a plea for attention. As for Militay wives, their husbands died for your and whoopi’s freedom. Think about that.
You are an idiot. Trump is not responsible for his death. He was a Special Forces Operator on a dangerous mission and he was well aware of the dangers. Our military is totally voluntary. Nobody forced him to go. You stupid liberals still don’t get it. We are fighting an idealistic enemy that have been indoctrinated since childhood that anyone that doesn’t conform to their ideals is an infidel and should die for that. The POTUS invited her to celebrate his life and service and you and the Whoopi Goldberg types want to take that away. How about YOU just go away! I HATE your types,with all my heart. I’m a proud veteran who loves my country and respects our President! You make me sick!
And watch and see, Donald Trump will go down as one of America’s greatest presidents.
So, Jackie Kennedy was “looking for attention” when she attended the nationally televised funeral for JFK and afterward stood in line for hours at the reception and greeted world leaders? Or when she did a magazine interview shortly after his death? Was that OK with you? How about Cindy Sheehan, was her “15 minutes” ok? GWB was incredibly gracious and allowed her to grieve how she saw fit. Is it only Republican women you feel should shut up and sit down? Seriously, lady – take a look in the mirror. You might want to wipe that smug off.
Isadora (and others), My sincere sympathy in the loss of your husband. True love and selflessness are expressed by being open to being hurt – not by protecting yourself.
By projecting her own fault onto another person, the way Whoopi Goldberg did, she showed a lack of compassion. It reminded me of an article I recently found about methods used by malignant narcissists on their victims. It is called projection. Take care what you say about others motives, rather examine your own. Here is the article:
OK WHOOPI , ENOUGH IS ENOUGH. I HAVE ALWAYS LIKES YOUR MOVIES, BUT YOUR POLITICS STINK
AND YOU JUST OPENED YOUR MOUTH WITH DESRESPECT FOR A FALLEN HERO. WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU THINKING. BECAUSE OF YOUR HATRED FOR OUR PRESIDENT YOU DISRESPECT THE DEAD. IF YOU HATE THIS COUNTRY AND THE MILITERY WHO ARE PROTECTING THIS COUNTRY AND YOUR ASS, I WISH THE HELL YOU WOULD MOVE. YOU SHOULD BE FIRED FROM THE VIEW. I AM DONE WITH YOU AS A FAN.AND WILE I’M AT IT WHY DON’R YOU TAKE JOY WITH YOU SHE IS ANOTHER STUPID JERK, AND YES I SAID THE WORD YOU LOVE SO MUCH.STUPID, BOTH OF YOU.
Agreed, they can leave this country and find one more fitting them.. The north pole.. STUPID JERKS THAT THEY ARE.. SNOWFLAKES
whoopi every time you open your mouth u prove your ignorance. If you could just shut up no one would know how stupid u really are. Can’t you just STFU???
How dare Mrs. Goldberg, or anyone else judge how one grieves !! Anyone who said anything negatively about her and her hero husband should be ashamed of themselves !! That to me, was such a patriotic statement for our President of the United States to remind everyone that our Freedom is not free and to recognize the men and women who fight for our Freedom. All of you Never Trumper’s, need to get over yourselves. This is much bigger than you !!!
I can’t say what I’d really like to say so I’m going to be politically correct and PG rated. You don’t know this woman. You don’t know her reasons for attending this address. You haven’t lost your partner and maybe the love of your life. Guess what. Shut up and keep your soulless responses to yourself. Your opinion is irrelevant to those of us with souls and compassion for our fellow men and women.
Lets just call theiswt it is! Whoopie stop being such a bitch! That statement was rude, crass and down right un American! Not one pinny of my support! I will nt buy products that support the view! I will boy cott theim fearcly!
Whoopi – do you really want to be the center of attention by being so dam mean and cruel? I have always loved your movies but you have lost a fan. You stoop to a very low level lady. Don’t you think it is time to pack your bags and move out of our country like you said you would if Trump was elected President. Well guess what – he WON so get over it. Stop being so full HATE and DISRESPECT!
Right love her sister act movies, maybe she needs a tune up.
Your an ignorant ass who should be deported! I think you must have loved st all sense of human dignity and emotion. If you can not truly feel that woman’s pain. God help you if you should ever experience such a loss! God does not like ugly, and that Madame is exactly what you and your soul is!
She is a very strong woman who was there only to honor her husband. How dare you Whoopi to be so cruel to suggest otherwise.
SHE WAS THERE TO HONOR HER SON……….NOT HER HUSBAND…and WHOOPI KNEW THAT HER HUSBAND REFUSED TO GO…so maybe she was right..??
It was his wife and her parents. His father may not agree with the mission, but apparently his son did. As for the View, wouldn’t waste my time watching that crap or those small minded, loud mouths that host it. A disgrace to women and should be yanked.
karen: You are a dumbass. Whoopi only knows hate. Get that through your liberal head. By the way, Whoppi is ugly inside and out – period!
Maybe you should get your facts straight before you open your stupid mouth. It was her husband that died. Not her father.
Can you comprehend what you read? Seriously? It was her husband not her son…
Whoopi thought you were moving guess not just another lie from you again. No wonder your not married no one could stand waking up to you and your ugly mouth. your nothing but a has been. You have no rescept for anyone. You have no class.
Fing be. Her husband died for us. For this Country. Why don’t you just move to another Country. Your so full of hate and discust.
We’re all so sick and tired of your nasty mouth. Get a life. Get out
That black bitch needs to finally shut the fuck up once and for all.
I don’t care if there are rules on here or not or what anyone thinks. She’s a racist cunt with her own agenda!
I hope the Democrats never win another election ever and if I have anything to say about it they sure won’t
Gee Whoopi, when you lost someone you love, did you stay in your house for as long as you think this widow should? I lost a child. He just 3 weeks short of turning 4 yrs old. Should I have stayed at home while my other two children run wild around the house? How can you as a woman and mother make such a vile comment like that… How in God’s name could you say that???!!!! You are so evil and nasty….
Exactly I so agree with you…I’m so very sorry for the loss your child. I lost a child too, my grandson who has lived with us since he was born was killed in a car accident 5 days after he turned 20 years old on Oct. 30th 2012, the day before Halloween. We went trick or treating the next night with his little sister. I know we didn’t have to go but we did it for our granddaughter who was only 4 at the time. People probably can’t understand how we could have done that?? Well you do what you have to do. Whoopi needs a reality check! So much HATE and disrespect!!
Your career as a respectable TV personality died but you still leave your house. That comment as well as just about everything else you spew once again shows your ignorance is gravely underestimated. Thought you were moving?
Whoopi it is time for you to take your bad attitude off the air.
What an ignorant bitch !! Man, i was so hoping she would leave the USA.. course she ran her big mouth that if Trump was elected she would leave, thinking for sure hillbeans was a sure !! She has no respect nor dignity. Disgusting.
Whoopi Goldberg you are totally stupid dysfunctional down graded Bitch. Well Whoopi you are not the widow, so stay home and hide under your Bed Bitch, Mrs. Owens definitely don’t need to demonstrate her 15 mins fame cause she earn that respect and honor from the President of the United States. Its totally disrespectful on your conduct and the Viewer should be Boycotted for your stupid ignorance . Will see whom going to get the last laugh . When President Trump Drain the swamp . Ps : were you suppose to leave the country, if Trump becomes President of the United States
. Well miss loud mouth you haven’t. You are totally all talk no action. Please leave my country Bitch. God don’t like ugly and you are totally UGLY
God Lord, to watch Whoppie judge a WOMAN, and her emotional reaction to her husband being thanked and honored by THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES………is UN-AMERICAN! You promised to LEAVE…… TRUMP WON, and YOU LOST!!! I CALL YOUR BLUFF, WHOPPIE (AKA) CANADIAN in TRAINING!
Omg you’re truly a stupid stupid person that needs help you are far from being a roll model you are the reason I stopped watching the view you and your twin need to move far far away if you don’t like America then leave you will not be missed….. So Whoopi and Joy I have only one last thing to say both of you are STUPID and so is the view.
Whoopi you are a P O S! I’m sure she would rather have her husband here instead of Skeeking” attention! God bless her and her children.
You have no compation or a good heart I hope one day you will realized how mean you arei and that will be the reason you’ll wind up alone with no one to love you , you obeosly don’t know what love is because you never got it.
minutes of fame will be well over while this man will always be remembered. That dirty bitch not so much.
Whoopi Goldberg, I’m in my 70’s and have been a fan of yours for countless years. I am a veteran. And whether you want to admit it or not you have absolutely no respect for this country’s military or anything associated with it. Thing is Whoopi you can’t hurt me simply because everything you say or do, as far as I am concerned, is meaningless. You have proven yourself a heartless person. I’d use the words Human Being but you don’t qualify as anyone coming close to holding a candle to the meaning of the words……. Human Being. You, and others with the same attitude as yours, are fine examples as to why everyone in this country ought to be glad Trump got in instead of the other party. I’ll end this with God’s speed to President Trump…….. and God Love America.
Thank you so much, Ray, for your service and Love for Our Country. I use to Love Whoopi but I too am no longer a fan of hers. My heart goes out to Mrs.Owens and her family for the tragic loss of Ryan, may he R.I.P. President Trump was so right when he said his memory would last an eternity, as will all our War Heroes. I would also like to Thank You for your response,, while you , as so many of us, are upset with this attitude of hate and disrepect, you made your feelings quite clear and still were able to keep your cool…Not Sure I Would, Sir. So, if I may agree with you whole heartedly and again Thank You, Sir for your Respect and Love for All Those who have and are now serving and for our President Trump. GOD BLESS AMERICA ~ AMEN ,
She promised she would move while she still here running her mouth
If the widow was black Whoopi would have a different opinion. WG is one of the biggest racist spewing their hate out there.
If the widow was black Whoopi would have a different opinion. WG is one of the biggest racist spewing their hate out there.
I haven’t liked you since Sister Act (1)! I don’t like you. I don’t like your movies. I don’t like your morals. I don’t like your filthy mouth. I don’t like the way you look. I don’t like your politics. I don’t know why they keep you on the show or want you on any show. You are totally disgusting And, I wish that you would be quiet and go away!
ABC needs to pull The View and Whooping Goldberg off the air IMMEDIATELY. Who of any sound mine would make this comment about anyone who has lost a spouse, let alone a military wife. You are sick!! I lost my husband in October, and he was the love of my life. I am not off crying in a corner of my house because that is not how I grieve. The grief journey is different for everyone. You could see the pain on this woman’s face and feel it through the TV. She is so new in the grief process she doesn’t know what to do or where to go. She just wants her partner in life back and wants to honor him, and maybe, just maybe, by honoring him there at the center of our democracy that he lost his life for, she will feel him next to her again. I think you said you do not even believe in God, Whoopi, and I do not think that even my God could see through your black heart. You are alone Whoopi. You have no husband, no girlfriend, are widely despised around the world, you have not done anything with your career except to sit and spin at The View helping spew hate. When I break down at the grocery store because I realize I do not need to buy my husband’s favorite cereal, I am not looking for attention, you bitch. That courageous woman put herself in the spotlight because it is honoring her husband, even though her profound grief was on display for the world to see. I will pray for you Whoopi, even though you probably will not care.
Spot on! Sincere condolences on the passing of your husband. God Bless.
She deserves to be noticed whimpie her husband gave his ultimate sacrifice so you can run you liberal mouth Please do us all a favor and Shut the f–k up or better yet just DIE !!
shame, shame, shame on you Whoppi. You have no class and it is time the View said “Goodbye and Good Riddance”!!
Whoopi Goldberg, Joy Behar and Sunny Hostin need to immediately be FIRED from THE VIEW. Better yet, ABC should be forced to remove THE VIEW from the airwaves. It is offensive trash television. It is NOT what Barbara Walters envisioned & created and it is only being used as a daily hit piece against President Donald J. Trump and his administration. Only low information voters watch this shit and sadly, they believe the LIES the show spreads, as if this show was an actual credible news show. It is an entertainment show, although it is piss poor entertainment at best. Whoopi, Joy and Sunny are bitter, hate-filled, liars with no joy or love for America. They can’t even stand one another. THE VIEW needs be taken off the air, period!
You become more VILE every day. Is there no limit to your hatred? What is so wrong in your life that you feel such a need to try to make EVERYTHING so negative and hateful…….SAD!!!
What made you so evil? Most of your movies showed compassion and kindness but I guess that was just acting. You are an add.
Whoopi you are horrible..we thought you were moving to Canada… ?
Your a hateful person an your personal life must be hell as you look in the mirror. Get out of the Country before your taken out an never to return.
It’s a shame to many of us that a woman of Whoopis character is allowed to live and prosper by degrading others. My conclusion is, she was created by the same God we all were created by. God loves her, but her evilness will reap a harvest of destruction. Beware Whoopi of want you judge people by because you will receive the same judgement. That widow has a heart that is already broken, dont pour salt in her wounds…she did nothing wrong. Her husband was only doing what was required of him as a U.S soldier…keep America free. You will one day stand before God and He will punish you accordingly…may he have mercy on your vile, evil spirit.
If I were Whoopi Goldberg, ai wouldn’t leave the house either. I would be too ashamed of my own ignorance, lack of compassion, self importance, and all around disrespect for the men, women, and their families who sacrifice to keep this country safe toget out of bed in the morning.
Poor Whoopie! Everyone is beating up on you. When you decided to go into show business did you imagine yourself as someone that no one wants to invite into their home? You see, I rate you along with the likes of Jerry Springer and his so informative show. Actually, you have no redeeming qualities and I think he has at least one. He knows his show is TRASH, but I think you think yours has some value. Nope, it doesn’t, it is just trash. I don’t want trash in my house and so I throw it out. I don’t let it sit around to stink up things until it draws pests. It looks like from the comments here that a lot of people feel the same as I do. Hopefully someone with some sense will buy some contractor bags and haul you out.
So now it’s ok for the democraps to go after a goldstar family???? Hmmmm, things were an awful lot different at the democraps tic national convention now wasn’t it. Maybe mr and mrs kahn should have stayed home. Or were they out just looking for attention. We whoopie, why the change of opinion now??
Even worse, the Khans are phonies. Mr. Kahn is an immigration lawyer who lobbies for unconstitutional Shariah Law to be implemented in this country, and who illegally sold Green Cards to wealthy Saudi businessmen, each for a great deal of cash. When he waved a borrowed copy of our Constitution (used ad a prop) at the DNC Convention, he revealed himself to be a total liar and a fraud. After Mr. Kahn’s speech, he hurriedly gave that copy of our Constitution (which he hates and lobbies against) back to the DNC operative who had purchased it earlier to be used as a prop for his Convention appearance.
The FBI has been after Kahn for years, and would have nailed his ass to the wall except that Obama politicized the FBI for his own purposes. Maybe with Jeff Sessions as the “New Sheriff in Town” we will finally see the “Kahn man” put out of business and in jail where he belongs.
Whoopi I use to like your films. However I will never watch a show that you are in and won’t watch the View. You do not belong in America after your disrespect for our military members who laid down their lives for your Freedom. That widow deserved comfort from all. You said you were going to leave the country. Please do
Whoopie , you are getting so fat ,how dare you find fault with anyone. Look in a mirror, if you can find one big enough, you will.see a fat slut.
These liberals are truly showing their real colors. Degrading a Gold Star Family!! I hope that the regular working class liberals are getting a good eyeful of what their leaders are really standing for. There are some military that are Democrats and I hope they are getting a good eyeful of what their party really stands for. Its all about minorities and illegals and anyone else is just garbage to them – Whoopi trashing a Gold star family? – this proves it!
Democrats had better get over themselves because the rest of the country will! They will be become increasingly irrelevant. Constant jaundiced disdain does not draw people to their cause. It causes people to see them as ineffectual. Proverbs teaches us that “where there is no vision, the people perish.” Their vision seems to be one of handwringing, finger pointing, and obstructionism.
Kind of interesting to see a celebrity accusing others of wanting attention.
Tell Whoppi to leave the country like she said she would. We don’t want her here. We will honor the brave and their family’s always. Anyone that watches your movies or the View only watch trash.
Whopper Golddigger is at it again as usual ! Showing off he classlessness !
Will she ever be able to shut her piehole ? Not until we make Hollyweird a place only liberals like to deal with !
SHe should be fired from the View! I hope that people will quit watching her and her disgusting mouth! Leave this county like you promised!!! Don’t let the door hit you on your big ASS as your leaving!
The View has become nothing more than a bunch of liberal hags! Cancel that garbage of a show. Whoopie please move to Canada like you mouthed of months ago that you would do if Hillary lost the election! You are so out of touch with the reality of what the American people support and desire! Hillarys ship sunk because we were tired of the democratic self entitled arrogant career politicians. Now we are tired of your nasty ass comments on the view! You should be fired! All you and Joy do is make the show that Class act Barbara Walters started look like a political Jerry springer joke! Time to cancel that show and nobody would miss it! Especially you and Joy good riddance and don’t let the door hit you in that fat ass whoopie!
I as a Canadian am getting pissed off by all you telling the fat sow to keep her word and move to Canada. What the fu*k have you people got against Canada. That piece of sh*t with no redeeming value is the spawn of questionable heritage should be hauled off to some landfill in the U S of A. We have more than our quota of garbage in the form of our piss ant Prime Minister.
You SUCK..that is all I can say you make me so disgusted and sick to my stomach reading your horrible and disrespectful remarks. WHO THE HELL ARE YOU TO JUDGE this lady? Not everyone grieves the same and she was honoring the memory of her husband. Anyone with even a tiny brain like you could see she was in pain and suffering but wanted to be strong for her husband’s memory to honor him. YOU IDIOT. I can not stand you any longer even to hear one word you speak you moron. This is the last straw… I am never ever even going to read anything you say or I will throw up. You are evil.
I think its YOU Whoopi who is always needing attention! You are so LOUD and OUTSPOKEN..You want to be heard above everyone else! The Naval Seal widow
was very obviously distraught…but came because Trump ASKED her to be there!
Out of RESPECT for the PRESIDENT and her HUSBAND! Something YOU might NOT understand! Trump made sure she was sitting next to Ivanka for emotional support. Whoopi you have NO HEART to be able to talk this callously about the grieving wife of a BRAVE Navy Seal. How RUDE and shows you have absolutely NO COMPASSION!
If ABC has any respect for viewers the View will be taken off the air and Joy Sunny and Whoopi get fired banning them from any day time show or night time, they are sick in the head and will never change because they think they are doing a good job. They need to take a slow boat to China and have it sink on the way !!!! They will never be missed !!
Yes I am JoAnn the comment above my name and please can I just sign Jo V. not my full name ?
Disgusting… She wouldn’t know the term sacrafice if it bit her on the behind. She gets her freedoms because of our armed forces. I won’t watch her in anything ever again. Done with you whoopie, you just lost YOUR 15 minutes of fame. Uh buh bye!
I along with many others around the USA are signing the petition to get The View off the air. The corporations that back the show is losing a lot of money cause we won’t buy their products or watch the channel. The View is getting what they deserve for the hate, racism attitude, personal opinions that are absolutely way out of text. Thanks to the American People who are sick and tired of listening to those chirping baby birds who just chirp all at the same time. Have their mouths open to try and catch the worm but Trump supporters will win the battle trust me. They have to be boycotted and petitions signed. Letters to the company.. anything you can think of. Good luck. I have done quite a bit already. I am done with abuse from the lefties….
If anyone is looking for attention it’s you Whoopie Goldberg! By making a statement like this about a grieving widow. You truly are a poor example for a human! The view should fire you along with Joy Bayhar! You are both against America!
Hey Isadora, the fact that you were so weak and couldn’t even honor your own husband is sad, but how dare you disrespect this hero’s widow. BTW your ignorance is amazing. If anyone should take responsibility for their actions it’s Obama. The mission this SEAL lost his life on was started during the PREVIOUS administration and simply continued to be carried out.
May I add, president Trump is NOT the first president to honor a grieving family,
Obama did and presidents before him. Because it’s president Trump you people have to rag on him? I am sick and tired of of everyone putting him down on everything he does, I didn’t want Obama in office I didn’t cry about it when he was in office I gave him a chance, now give Trump a chance. People have to realize you don’t always get what you want!!! Let the man do his job.
Even if she enjoyed a bit of attention, how mean and small are you Whoopie, to deny her that scrap of comfort?
Once again the weak liberals who wilt like flowers, who have no strength and cannot rise above the pain and adversity. People who curl up and die when anything painful arises. I lost my daughter when she was 19. I had the choice to curl up in the fetal position and die, I have e to fight this demon every day and it will become my “friend” that will never leave me. However, I want to LIve for my daughter, and I refuse to allow the grief to incapacitate me. I CHOOSE TO HONOR HER with LIFE and make her proud. I choose to be strong and overcome. I am always amazed how liberals always turn themselves into victims and wallow in their negativity. If anything it’s those kiinds of people who want attention…… Poor me, come bring me casseroles, and send me prayers and little hearts and hugs on FB. The more the left opens their collective mouths the more they disgust me with their weakness. I applaud this widow because she had to stand there for a very long period of time while the world looked upon her grief and her vulnerability. She stood strong and held it together. She honored her husband and I admire her for her strength of character to be able to do so rather than curl up in a fetal position, which I know would be much easier to do. But she’s not weak like the left. She is definitely a woman., A true “feminist”, a hero and pillar of strength and admiration for girls to look up to, and the left rear her down. Go figure.
[…] are pathetic!!! Whoopi Goldberg: Navy SEAL Widow was "Looking for Attention" | The Underground Report "An armed society is a polite society. Manners are good when one may have to back up his acts […]
Seems to me it isn’t the widow who was “looking for attention”…
I use to be a fan of Whoopie , but, now i have no respect at all for her. The View needs to be cancelled and replaced with something better! So tired of ignorance like this.
What business is it of yours’ anyway? You, Whoopi, are a disgrace to be an American. The View is one show I’ve never cared for. You are the one that loves the attention or spotlight, opening your big mouth!, and it is big!, and putting your foot in it! Take View off the air and put reruns of Mr. Ed, on in their spot! He has a big mouth but at least he’s fun to watch!!!!
Whoopi, Trump Airlines will fly your a$$ out of this country permanently if you hate it here so much. You are a disgrace to our country and should be ashamed of your ugly self.
Whoopee, Joy and the rest of the liberals trash talking on the most hated talk show ever. Take “The View” off TV, we are sick of the crap this show spews. Start with Whoopi, this hateful bitch has had her better days, now just one of biggest reasons to boycott this show. Ugly is too good for the “Whoop”. Move out of our country & take that other bitch “Joy” with you. None of you deserve to live here. Pack your shit spewing friends and leave, we don’t want you here.
Whoopi did not leave the great USA because she would have lost her meal ticket and support of her little inner circle! She needs to be gone and NO one will miss here! The American men and woman who have fought for our freedom, died for those freedoms should be honored, remembered and NEVER forgotten! We need to support them and all the last several presidents from Bush, Clinton and Obama administrations promised to clean up the VA system (BROKEN AND NOT WORKING) and start supporting our troops and their families! Trump will try and clean up this system and we all need to put away our past negative ideas and support him and his cabinet no mater our differences and just move on…period!
I suppose she said the same when Trayvon Martin’s parents did many tv interviews after the sob was shot?
You Might Also Like:Why Women Are Flocking to This Incredible New Shopping SiteAwkward Photos of Hotties Who Don't Wear UnderwearShe Really Gave The Crowd A ShowSponsored Content?These content links are provided by
and the web site upon which the links are displayed may receive compensation when readers click on these links. Some of the content you are redirected to may be sponsored content. View our privacy policy here.Family-Friendly ContentWebsite owners select the type of content that appears in our units. However, if you would like to ensure that Content.ad always displays family-friendly content on this device, regardless of what site you are on, check the option below.
to drive visitors to your content or add this service to your site, please contact us at info@content.ad.
The Underground Report is dedicated to bringing the truth to the public. The mainstream media has failed the American people, allowing the corrupt shadow government to twist and censor their coverage. At the Underground Report our journalistic integrity is non-wavering, and we will always bring the truth to light.Contact us:
SECURITY WARNING: Please treat the URL above as you would your password and do not share it with anyone. See the Facebook Help Center
SECURITY WARNING: Please treat the URL above as you would your password and do not share it with anyone. See the Facebook Help Center
US Intel Report: Obama Working with the UN to Remove Trump
Should Democrats Who Refused to Honor Navy SEAL Widow Be Removed...
