Pope Francis Shocks World, Endorses Donald Trump for President, Releases Statement – Channel 16 Newsarchive.iswebpage captureSaved fromno other snapshots from this url16 Dec 2016 13:21:06 UTCAll snapshotsfrom host channel16news.comWebpageScreenshotsharedownload .zipreport error or abuseRedditVoatTwitterVKontaktePinboardLivejournalFacebookGoogle+short linklong linkmarkdownhtml code<a href="http://archive.is/ZkFki">
= Pope Francis Shocks World, Endorses Donald Trump for President, Relea…
She Was Stunning in the 70's But Wait Till You See Her Now
Pope Francis Shocks World, Endorses Donald Trump for President, Releases Statement
photo by Jeffrey Bruno / CC BY-SA 2.0 / cropped & photo by Gage Skidmore / CC BY-SA 3.0 / cropped
She Was Stunning in the 70's But Wait Till You See Her Now
3ShareVATICAN CITY – Multiple news reports from around the world are confirming the news that Pope Francis has endorsed Donald Trump for President of the United States. The decision was an unprecedented one, as no pope has ever endorsed a US presidential candidate. The Pope’s statement confirming his endorsement was released just a short time ago:
“I have been restrained so far in commenting on the US presidential election but I feel strongly now that to remain silent would be a dereliction of my duty as The Holy See. This election is far too important, not only for the United States but also for the rest of the world, to remain silent any longer. The collusion of the Democratic Party in the United States together with the media and large corporations has created unprecedented levels of corruption throughout the federal government that has even now extended to the FBI. Though I do not agree with Mr. Trump on some issues I can see no other option than to support his candidacy for president. The only antidote to corruption is the promotion of the Rule of Law and Mr. Trump is the only candidate who is far enough removed from this corruption to have a chance of breaking it up and restoring the Rule of Law. Mr. Trump is now the only hope America has for regaining this basic foundation of government that provides for freedom and justice for all and I hope and pray that all of those within the United States that desire freedom and justice will vote for Mr. Trump.”
It’s been reported that the Pope’s closest advisers were unaware that he had made a decision on endorsing Trump until he released his statement this evening. The Pope had apparently been discussing the possibility of endorsing Trump but all of his advisers had advised against doing so. Stay tuned to channel16news.com for more on this breaking news story.
photo by Jeffrey Bruno / CC BY-SA 2.0 / cropped & photo by Gage Skidmore / CC BY-SA 3.0 / cropped
35 Circus Freaks From The Past That Will Freak You Out
12 Mysterious Photos That Cannot be Explained #5 Will Scare the Life out of You!
Watch How This 22-Year-Old Became a Millionaire in 30 Days in Hamilton !
Passion Dindon : Pourquoi J'Adore Faire Cuire Un Dindon En Famille A Noel
A Couple from Hamilton Makes $532,491 a Month Using This Software
Precious Is So Skinny Now And Looks Like A Model - We Can't Stop Staring
9 Facts About Obama Before He Was President: #7 Is Shocking!
Watch How This 22-Year-Old Became a Millionaire in 30 Days in Hamilton !
Passion Dindon : Pourquoi J'Adore Faire Cuire Un Dindon En Famille A Noel
35 Circus Freaks From The Past That Will Freak You Out
