Nadeem Aslam: ‘I take delight that my initials in Urdu look like a pen by an inkwell’ | Books | The Guardian
Nadeem Aslam: ‘I take delight that my initials in Urdu look like a pen by an inkwell’
The novelist on sleeping through the afternoon, working through the night and capturing real-life events in fiction
‘Writing is almost sacred to me – a calling, a privilege and a duty’ … Nadeem Aslam. Illustration by Alan Vest
Nadeem Aslam: ‘I take delight that my initials in Urdu look like a pen by an inkwell’
The novelist on sleeping through the afternoon, working through the night and capturing real-life events in fiction
I sleep in the afternoon and evening and get up at 11pm. I am at my desk at midnight and I write until six or seven in the morning. I have been working this way for 25 years now. The quietness deepens at night and everything feels saturated with stillness. From 7am till midday, I read. It is often said human beings don’t come with an instruction manual; but I believe that books – libraries – are the instruction manuals for human beings. To read a great book is to realise that everything is already known. I also look at the newspapers. Many things in my books come from real life; but a novelist has to be careful in transporting a real event into the landscape of a novel. It is patient work, like moving a lake from one place to another with a teaspoon.
I go for a walk in the farmlands and orchards near my house. Insects and birds appear and disappear with the seasons. On the hilltop there are remains of a late bronze age fort. There is a wood full of bluebells in April. I climb down into the valley and enter the neighbourhood I grew up in, a cluster of mainly Muslim working-class streets, here in Yorkshire. It has produced dozens of doctors over the decades, as well as nurses and lawyers, dentists, teachers, drug smugglers, pimps, happy and bitterly unhappy arranged marriages, many of them between first cousins, and there are men and women I went to school with now under arrest for running sweatshops for migrant workers.
From her kitchen my mother heard a gun being fired in a drug dealer’s basement last year, and she thought someone had attacked her beloved mosque. In the mosque courtyard the fallen petals of the magnolia tree ferment and the squirrels who eat them become intoxicated, stumbling about afterwards while the worshippers enter and exit the sacred building. Three flights a week come to Manchester airport from Pakistan, bringing vegetables and fruit not grown in England. My mother times her visit to the corner shop to buy the freshest tinde, kadu, arvi, moongra – all the green wealth of the Punjab.
She interrupts our conversations to spread out her prayer mat. She says her prayers five times each day and is aware of the sun’s movement precisely – how the prayer times differ by small minutes from one day to the next.
Transport­ing a real event into a novel is patient work, like moving a lake from one place to another with a teaspoon
On some mornings I might take a small journey. Recently I went on the train to the nearby village where Jo Cox was murdered and stood looking at the spot where it happened. I take a bus to Bradford, where a family of Pakistani Muslim converts to Christianity had to flee their home last November, under police escort, after years of persecution from their Muslim neighbours. At home I open an old notebook and see an orange poppy glued in there: I remember visiting Leeds in July 2005, where the suicide bomber Shehzad Tanweer’s house had just been sealed with metal sheets by police – I had found that flower in his front garden.
There are afternoons when I don’t write, using the internet instead. I see the internet as a beautiful resource. Next to my writing desk is a blank sheet of A4 paper on to which I jot down things I need to look up – some to do with the book I am writing, others completely unrelated. Only when the sheet is full – on both sides – do I log on: it can take up to 10 days to fill the sheet. Then I go through the items one by one. A particular scene from a half-forgotten movie; the contemporary reviews of a classic novel … I stay logged on for as long as it takes to look everything up. Afterwards I pin a new sheet next to the desk.
At 4pm I sleep. I have made my life as simple as possible in order to write. Writing is almost sacred to me – a calling, a privilege and a duty. And I take delight in the fact that my initials in Urdu look like a pen next to an inkwell.
• Nadeem Aslam’s latest book, The Golden Legend, is published by Faber. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99), go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
