Hannity: Ex-Obama official 'could vindicate' Trump's surveillance claims | Fox News
Fox News' Sean Hannity opened Wednesday night's edition of "Hannity" by saying that statements by a former Obama administration official "could prove the Obama administration was very much involved in the surveillance of Trump transition team members."
Hannity was referring to a March 2 MSNBC interview with Dr. Evelyn Farkas, former deputy assistant secretary of defense for Russia/Ukraine/Eurasia and now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.
FORMER OBAMA OFFICIAL DISCLOSES RUSH TO GET INTELLIGENCE ON TRUMP TEAM
In the interview, Farkas admitted to "telling the Hill people, get as much information as you can [about possible connections between the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence] ... before President Obama leaves the administration, because I had a fear that somehow that information would disappear with the senior [Obama] people who left."
Farkas also said she feared "that the Trump folks – if they found out how we knew what we knew about their ... the Trump staff dealing with Russians – that they would try to compromise those sources and methods, meaning we no longer have access to that intelligence."
According to Hannity, Farkas was "admitting ... surveillance of Trump and his associates and transition team took place," as well as "unmasking" of those Trump team members and "intelligence leaking," which, Hannity said, "could very well be a felony."
"Surveillance. Unmasking. Intelligence leaking. All acknowledged in that tape by Evelyn Farkas," Hannity said. "Now, for days, we have been asking on this program, ‘Who knew what, when and where?’
"Did Obama officials commit a crime here and how did Evelyn Farkas, a former relatively low-ranking Obama administration official, how did she know about all this surveillance? ... My prediction is as each day goes by, more and more information will be coming available and soon, we’re going to have the answers to these very important questions."
McConnell vows Gorsuch confirmation this week, says nuclear option 'in hands of Democrats'
LGBTQ activists held "dance party" protest outside Ivanka Trump's D.C. home
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
