White House Sources: Reports of Gorka Leaving White House Are ‘Incorrect’ - Breitbart
White House Sources: Reports of Gorka Leaving White House Are ‘Incorrect’
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERMultiple White House sources confirmed to Breitbart News on Sunday evening that reports earlier on Sunday that Sebastian Gorka, a deputy assistant to President Donald Trump, is somehow leaving the White House are incorrect.
“Incorrect,” one source told Breitbart News when asked about reports from the Washington Examiner and CNN that Gorka was leaving the White House.
A second White House source with direct knowledge of these matters confirmed to Breitbart News that the reports are wrong.
The Washington Examiner’s Sarah Westwood reported on Sunday that Gorka, an ex-Breitbart News national security editor, was leaving the White House for another federal agency.
“Sebastian Gorka, deputy assistant to President Trump, will soon accept a position outside the White House, two sources told the Washington Examiner on Sunday,” Westwood wrote:
Gorka’s new role will deal with the “war of ideas” involved in countering radical Islamic extremism, a senior administration official said, and will entail an appointment to a federal agency.
Gorka has served for months on the Strategic Initiatives Group, an internal organization within the White House, and as a national security adviser. His exit from the White House comes amid increased speculation that a reported lack of a security clearance prevented him from fully performing in his job.
But a source told the Washington Examiner that Gorka’s role in SIG was always meant to be temporary, and suggested he had been placed there while administration officials created a terrorism-related position for him elsewhere in the government. An official said Gorka has been in a “holding pattern” while he waited for the position, which will not be at the State Department, to be established.
A spokesman for the National Security Council said he did not “personally know” the details about Gorka’s move.
A White House source said Gorka’s role has always been unclear and said Gorka never had national security issues in his portfolio. “This guy has always been a big mystery to me,” the source said of Gorka’s contributions to the staff.
It turns out that these sources had inaccurate information. So did “administration officials” who talked anonymously to CNN, which published a similar report.
“Sebastian Gorka, a controversial national security aide in the White House, is expected to leave his job, several administration officials confirm to CNN,” CNN’s Jim Acosta and Eric Bradner wrote on Sunday. “One senior administration official said Gorka is expected to find an opportunity outside the White House soon. Another said it’s possible he would take another job in the administration, but added it’s more likely he will leave altogether. That official said Gorka was simply generating too much controversy for the White House.”
Gorka has been under constant assault from the left, including many media attacks that falsely claimed he has anti-semitic ties. But a BuzzFeed report from Mitch Prothero in Hungary found that Gorka actually has no anti-semitic or Nazi ties, despite scores of inaccurate reports and claims from left-wing organizations that he did.
Big Government, CNN, Donald Trump, Jim Acosta, Sarah Westwood, Sebastian Gorka, Washington Examiner, White House
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
White House Sources: Reports of Gorka Leaving White House Are ‘Incorrect’0 comments - 8 hours agoWHCD Host Hasan Minhaj Blasts ‘Liar-in-Chief’ Trump: ‘The Orange Man Behind the Muslim Ban’0 comments - 1 day agoMay Day: Anti-Trump Illegal Aliens Vow ‘Biggest Workers Strike in over a Decade’0 comments - 12 hours agoTrump invites Philippines’ Duterte to Washington for talks0 comments - 1 day agoSamantha Bee: America Does Not Have a ‘Smug Liberal Problem’0 comments - 17 hours agoAnn Coulter: Taxpayers Supporting Leftist ‘Thugs’ That Have Taken Over Universities0 comments - 19 hours agoMcCain: Trump Should Release His Tax Returns0 comments - 17 hours agoDemocrats Reel from DNC Chair’s Announcement That Party Will Exclude Pro-Life Candidates0 comments - 2 days agoTrump to CBS’s Dickerson: ‘I Love Your Show — I Call It Deface the Nation’0 comments - 17 hours agoKudlow: Trump’s Tax Plan a ‘Home Run’0 comments - 7 hours ago
White House Sources: Reports of Gorka Leaving White House Are ‘Incorrect’0 CommentsKudlow: Trump’s Tax Plan a ‘Home Run’0 CommentsMay Day: Anti-Trump Illegal Aliens Vow ‘Biggest Workers Strike in over a Decade’0 CommentsEight Injured in Apartment Shooting: Suspect had Beer in One Hand, Gun in Other0 CommentsPelosi: ‘I Never Thought I Would Pray for the Day’ Bush Were President Again0 CommentsBreitbart News Daily: Fake News0 CommentsLA Immigration Activists’ Illegal Immigrant Mother To Be Deported0 CommentsMIT Graduate Dies Trying to Climb the School’s Dome as Part of a Prank0 CommentsTrump to CBS’s Dickerson: ‘I Love Your Show — I Call It Deface the Nation’0 CommentsSchumer: If Trump Changes, We Could Work Together0 CommentsPolitico Magazine: Despite Political Success, NRA Struggles to Attract Black Gun Owners0 CommentsDaniel Defense: Second Amendment Rights Come From God, Not Government0 Comments
Big Government Big Journalism Big Hollywood National Security Tech Video Sports The WiresLondon Jerusalem Texas CaliforniaThe Conversation Privacy Policy Terms of Use Breitbart Jobs
