SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERThe Pew Research Center released an analysis of Justice Department numbers Monday showing a massive increase in the prominence of immigration-related offenses in federal law enforcement.
Pew cited a report released last month by the Bureau of Justice Statistics to show that immigration offenses accounted for fully half of federal arrests in 2014, up from only 28% a decade earlier. Consequently, the Department of Homeland Security, which includes Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), now makes more arrests than the FBI, DEA, BATFE, U.S. Marshal’s Service, and all other branches of the Justice Department combined.
The geographic distribution of federal arrests also shows the growing emphasis on immigration offenses. In 2014, 61% of all federal arrests – or more than 100,000 – occurred in just five federal judicial districts along the U.S.-Mexico border.
Driven by this massive increase in immigration arrests, a staggering 61% of federal arrests are now of non-U.S. citizens. These arrests, mostly for immigration offenses, but including thousands for other crimes, do not include the hundreds of thousands of non-criminal apprehensions of illegal aliens each year.
Illegal aliens made up an equally shocking 37% of all criminal defendants in federal district courts in 2014.
Most illegal aliens arrested for immigration offenses are referred to administrative hearings before immigration courts. The increase in this type of arrests has placed tremendous strain on that system. The resulting backlog raises concerns of a “virtual amnesty” from the inability to process these cases.
The BJS report shows that, increasingly, immigration offenses, which can include more serious crimes like trafficking aliens into the United States, are winding up in regular U.S. district courts. While, in 1994, fewer than 2,500 immigration cases wound up in district court, 21,789 did in 2014, representing over a quarter of those general courts’ criminal caseload. Of those defendants, almost 80% were sentenced to time in federal prison with a median sentence of 15 months.
The influx of illegal alien offenders and especially of immigration arrestees remains a pressure point on the federal prison system that, due to a drop in other types of offenders and changes in federal sentencing policy, has otherwise seen a drop in overcrowding. The problem is particularly acute for prisons run by private companies, which are disproportionately set aside for immigration offenders.
ICE is forced to make use of dozens of private facilities to house detainees awaiting deportation. Attorney General Jeff Sessions recently announced he would be reversing the Obama administration’s plans to phase out private prisons for criminal convicts and pre-trial detainees.
Pew notes that, by their estimates, federal arrests make up only a little more than one percent of the total arrests in the United States each year, local and state law enforcement being responsible for the vast majority of arrests.
While the numbers in the BJS report accurately reflect the federal criminal justice system, wider estimates of the proportions of crime committed by illegal aliens are hard to come by. Reporting across the nation’s hundreds of law enforcement agencies is inconsistent and incomplete. So-called “sanctuary” jurisdictions also refuse to report on their arrestees’ immigration status as a matter of policy, hindering federal efforts to collect statistics and enforce immigration laws.
Big Government, Immigration, Law Enforcement, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Illegal Aliens, PEW Research Center, Sanctuary Cities
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
Putin: Syria Chemical Attack Was ‘False Flag,’ More ‘Provocations’ Coming0 comments - 3 hours agoTillerson: Russia Must Choose Between Assad and the U.S.0 comments - 6 hours agoUnited CEO: Man dragged off plane was ‘disruptive,’ ‘belligerent’0 comments - 2 hours agoGOP Leaders Dropping Border Wall Funds, Says Report0 comments - 19 hours agoExclusive — RNC Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel on 2018: ‘We’re Not Going to Concede Anything’0 comments - 14 hours agoPutin — Who Once Honored Tillerson with Friendship Award — Won’t Meet with Secretary of State0 comments - 18 hours agoDonald Trump’s Pick For Top Economic Adviser Is Pro-Immigration, Pro-Outsourcing0 comments - 2 days agoStockholm Attack Victim Was Psychiatrist ‘Committed to Helping Asylum Seekers’ Facing Deportation0 comments - 5 hours agoTrump Orders Strikes Against Syrian Regime Airbase in Response to Chemical Attack0 comments - 5 days agoVideo: Doctor Forcefully Removed from Overbooked United Airlines Flight After Refusing to Give Up His Seat0 comments - 21 hours ago
Putin: Syria Chemical Attack Was ‘False Flag,’ More ‘Provocations’ Coming0 CommentsTillerson: Russia Must Choose Between Assad and the U.S.0 CommentsDonald Trump Urges China to Solve ‘North Korean Problem’0 CommentsTop House Intel Democrat Rejects Call to Recuse Himself from Russia Probe0 CommentsComedian Hasan Minhaj, Who Called Donald Trump ‘White ISIS,’ to Headline WHCD0 CommentsLow Blow! Oscar De La Hoya Hits Trump, Border Wall in Ad Promoting Cinco de Mayo Bout0 CommentsDuterte Sings Different Tune: Urges U.S. to ‘Help’ Philippines Fight Terrorism0 CommentsTina Brown: Hillary ‘Was Right’ With Comments About Role Misogyny Played In Election0 CommentsBen Rhodes’ ‘Echo Chamber’ Aims at Gorka from Beyond the Grave0 CommentsFitton: Documents Confirm that Obama IRS Improperly Targeted Conservatives0 CommentsPope Francis Goes Forward with Egypt Trip, Despite Jihadist Bombings0 CommentsTrump Administration: Islamic State Defeat Remains Primary Focus in Syria0 Comments
Big Government Big Journalism Big Hollywood National Security Tech Video Sports The WiresLondon Jerusalem Texas CaliforniaThe Conversation Privacy Policy Terms of Use Breitbart Jobs
