White House petsBreaking NewsCNNToggle SearchSearch45CongressSecurityThe NineTrumpmericaCNN.comThe presidential pets of the White House Updated 0237 GMT (1037 HKT) February 2, 2016 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Photos: The presidential pets of the White House Being president of the United States is a stressful job, but President Obama -- like other presidents before him -- has likely benefited from having dogs at the White House. Click through to see other presidential pets.Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Abraham Lincoln's son Tad rides one of his horses. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Theodore Roosevelt's eldest son, Teddy Jr., holds his macaw, Eli.Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President William Howard Taft's pet cow, Pauline, stands on the lawn of the State, War and Navy Building in Washington. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Warren G. Harding and his dog Laddie are photographed in front of the White House. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Calvin Coolidge's wife, Grace, holds her pet raccoon, Rebecca.Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Herbert Hoover poses with his dog, King Tut.Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Franklin D. Roosevelt drives in his convertible with his dog Fala.Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House First lady Mamie Eisenhower and her granddaughter Barbara Anne Eisenhower stand with the family pet, Heidi, outside the White House. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President John F. Kennedy and first lady Jacqueline Kennedy stand with their guests and their daughter's ponies, Macaroni and Tex, outside the White House in 1962.Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Lyndon Johnson sings with dog Yuki while his grandson, Patrick, watches at the LBJ Ranch in 1968.Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Richard Nixon, his wife and two daughters play with their pet cocker spaniel Checkers on the beach at Mantoloking, New Jersey, in 1953.Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Gerald Ford relaxes with his dog Liberty in the Oval Office in 1975.Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Jimmy Carter's daughter, Amy, holds her Siamese cat Misty Malarky Ying Yang.Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House First lady Nancy Reagan cradles an early Christmas present, a King Charles spaniel named Rex, as she and President Reagan stroll along the South Lawn of the White House in 1985. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President George H.W. Bush walks on the South Lawn of the White House, followed by his dog Millie and her puppies.
In 1989, Millie gave birth to a litter of six puppies, including Spot, who later returned to the White House with President George W. Bush.Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House President Bill Clinton walks with the family cat, Socks, as he arrives back at the White House in 1993 after a speech.Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: The presidential pets of the White House First lady Laura Bush and President George W. Bush are joined by their dogs Spot and Barney as they walk from Marine One to the White House on September 30, 2001. Hide Caption 18 of 18Being president of the United States is a stressful job, but many presidents have likely benefited from having pets at the White House. More from PoliticsTexas voter ID law was designed to discriminate, judge rulesSchumer: Trump 'all talk and no action' on ChinaNorth Korea issues warning as US strike group heads to Korean PeninsulaGOP hopes to keep Kansas House seat in special electionGOP lawmakers brace for new round of town hall backlashSections45CongressSecurityThe NineTrumpmericaFollow usCNN.com© 2017 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines
