Secret Teacher: Social media is hurting pupils – we need more support | Teacher Network | The Guardian
Secret Teacher: Social media is hurting pupils – we need more support
I’ve seen the harm online platforms can do to children, but the government is slow to respond. Its latest plans don’t go far enough
Children may not have the resilience to cope with negative comments online.
Secret Teacher: Social media is hurting pupils – we need more support
I’ve seen the harm online platforms can do to children, but the government is slow to respond. Its latest plans don’t go far enough
This week, the government announced plans to target “sexting and cyberbullying” as part of an initiative to make the internet safer for young people. It is to meet with technology companies, charities, academies and mental health professionals to develop a strategy. All this sounds wonderful, but the speed of reaction to what has been a very real situation for years has been painfully slow.
My previous efforts in trying to make a difference on this issue have not resulted in any meaningful government response, and I fear that more discussion will lead to a slow solution, or one with no impact. I also notice that a key stakeholder has been missed from the government’s list – the social media giants themselves.
In my experience, children can have great difficulty navigating these platforms and, as any teacher will tell you, students don’t always have the resilience to cope with exposure to negative comments. The issue is even worse for primary school pupils, and in this lies a specific problem.
The vast majority of social media platforms set their age limit at 13; you can check it in their terms and conditions, if you can find them. But from what I can tell they make absolutely no effort to police this restriction.
I’ve worked at a variety of schools and bullying has existed, in one form or another, at all of them. However, the worst incidents that I’ve had to deal with all happened when the children concerned were sitting in their own homes.
In the first case, two pupils sent nasty messages to each other on a popular social media platform, a string of abuse that was both homophobic and anti-Semitic. In the second, a boy had threatened a girl with graphic sexual violence because she’d spurned his advances. I was unfortunate enough to read the messages; I won’t commit them to paper, but I felt sick. The children concerned were 11 and 12.
Schools work incredibly hard to educate and protect the young people in their care, and parents are doing their best. Yet it’s not always easy. When the problem involves the chat function of a social media platform, the danger is clear and can be blocked by a filter or eagle-eyed adult. But nearly all online games now have a chat function hidden away in their system. You think they’re building a castle, but at the same time they’re communicating with anon66.
Once, a nefarious individual contacted a pupil of mine and groomed them, plain as day, in an open chat. He offered sex. Luckily a concerned parent of another child informed the school. The student’s parents were understanding, the child ashamed, sorry, and then educated. We contacted the company running the service – could the groomer’s account be suspended? No reply.
I got in touch with multiple social media companies, and the Department for Education, about the wider problem. At one point, I tweeted Facebook on a daily basis for a sustained period of time, asking if it had any solution to the problem of underage children being exposed to the dangers of the platform. I never got a response.
The UK government was marginally better: it eventually said that plenty was being done to tackle the issue of primary children and social media, but failed to give any specifics and ignored my request for support in approaching the social media giants.
On Safer Internet Day 2016, CBBC Newsround reported that more than 75% of children aged 10 to 12 had social media accounts, so I wrote back to the minister to point out that they could have done something about the issue months earlier. I never got a reply.
My school – like many – has recently rewritten its safeguarding policies and (under Keeping Children Safe in Education and other regulations) sexting, banter and peer-on-peer abuse all have to be included, and rightly so. The Department for Education must force schools to comply on those issues that it considers to be important, requiring both Ofsted and the Independent Schools Inspectorate to dish out regulatory failings if necessary. I only wish that it would also force Facebook et al to comply to similar requirements.
Along with most schools, we hold online safety sessions for parents and send out updates in our newsletter. But whatever children, parents and teachers do to tackle the serious dangers social media poses to those too young to navigate its murky waters, it will never be enough without the involvement of the social media companies themselves.
So back to the government initiative, led by culture secretary Karen Bradley. Discussion is all well and good, and the promise of a green paper in the summer is a positive step. But in a sector where the pace of change is lightning fast, and some of the most popular apps (for example, Yellow) did not exist until recently, I would once again urge the government to take more rapid action.
Ask the opinions of a broad range of schools and actually find out what the effect of this issue is. Meet with Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and others, force them to age verify, and pass legislation that punishes those companies that play hard and fast with the safety of our children. The government says it will “identify risks”, but the risks have been identified and weaknesses are being exploited. Maybe someone should actually do something that will make a difference … anyone?
Follow us on Twitter via @GuardianTeach. Join the Guardian Teacher Network for lesson resources, comment and job opportunities, direct to your inbox
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
