SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERDemocrats and open border advocates are staging a hunger strike in Texas against the State’s proposed anti-sanctuary city bill. Its backers are asking for support using #FastAgainstSB4.
One Texas Democrat said a communion wafer on Sunday was the last meal she is going to have until after Wednesday when the Texas House debates the bill.
#FastAgainstSB4! Don't forget to wear black when you head to ATX on Wed. to #FillTheGallery! pic.twitter.com/sqha3drTc0
Representative Victoria Neave (D-Mesquite) announced her intention to conduct the four-day fast after Mass at the Cathedral Shrine of the Virgin of Guadeloupe in Dallas. She encouraged people to “wear black when you head to ATX on Wed. to #FillTheGallery.” The Texas House will debate the sanctuary city bill on Wednesday.
Those with the “Indivisible” movement in Texas tweeted, “We’ve gotten word from several people who will join @Victoria4Texas’ fast in solidarity.” The group wants those who plan to fast to tag them so they can retweet.
We’ve gotten word from several people who will join @Victoria4Texas‘ fast in solidarity. Planning to #FastAgainstSB4? Tag us so we can RT. https://t.co/SVIo3gLBZn
The movement in the state and the country follows the “Indivisible Guide” whose stated mission is “stopping Trump from implementing an agenda built on racism, authoritarianism, and corruption.” Indivisible chapters have sprung-up all over Texas. Their guide also provides “A local strategy targeting individual Members of Congress.” The guide is written in English and Spanish, and there is audio as well as written versions.
House members are being urged “to do everything possible to #StopSB4.”
Today, I’m joining @Victoria4Texas in the #fastagainstsb4. Now, it’s time for the @TexasHDC to do everything possible to #StopSB4 pic.twitter.com/ot6caMKCNH
SB 4 was passed by the Texas Senate in early February, right after the start of the new legislative session. The House State Affairs Committee held a hearing on March 15 after holding the “emergency item” for almost a month. More than 600 people signed up to testify. Democrat organized witnesses who testified were overwhelmingly against the legislation. The committee approved the bill by a vote of 7-5 along partisan lines. The bill was placed on the emergency calendar for April 26 after being considered in Calendars on April 20.
As reported by Breitbart Texas, the watered-down version extracts the teeth of the bill by cutting the provisions that would strip state criminal justice grants to renegade cities and counties. It also removes civil liabilities from government officials who did not honor immigration detainers and released criminal aliens that later commit crimes. The House version bars law enforcement officers from asking a person about their immigration status unless they have been arrested.
Texas Governor Greg Abbott listed addressing sanctuary cities as an emergency item during his 2017 State of the State Address before a joint session of the legislature in January. As reported by Breitbart Texas, he told the members of the Texas House and Senate, “Elected officials don’t get to pick and choose which laws they obey.” The Governor responded after SB 4 was passed in February by reiterating that message and stating, “As Governor, I will not tolerate sanctuary city policies that put the citizens of Texas at risk.”
Apparently expressing his desire for the bill’s passage, Abbott tweeted to the Texas House on March 19, “It’s time to get this Sanctuary city bill passed & to my desk for signing.”
It’s time to get this Sanctuary city bill passed & to my desk for signing. #txlege #tcot https://t.co/AEkf43LjIU
The communications director for Texas Speaker of the House Joe Straus responded to a Breitbart Texas inquiry in December by stating, “Speaker Straus will work with fellow House Members, Governor Abbott, and law enforcement to ensure that there are no sanctuary cities in Texas.”
Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX and Facebook.
Border, Breitbart Texas, Immigration, 85th Texas Legislature, Anti-Sanctuary City Bill, fasting, Greg Abbott, hunger strike, Indivisible, Texas SB 4, Texas Young Dems, TXLege, Victoria Neave
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
Donald Trump Invites Conservative Media to White House for Exclusive Briefing0 comments - 13 hours agoDonald Trump Announces 20 Percent Import Tax on Canadian Softwood Lumber0 comments - 3 hours agoNYT: Immigration Reformers Rising in Trump Administration0 comments - 15 hours agoLIVE WIRE: France Votes0 comments - 2 days agoSchumer: If Breitbart, New York Times Are Given Equal Credibility, ‘You Worry About this Democracy’0 comments - 21 hours agoFar-Left Voters More Likely to Share Their Wives, Right Wingers More Sexually Dominant, Claims Study0 comments - 3 hours agoLawyer for Berkeley Republicans in Coulter Case Slams ACLU for Absence0 comments - 18 hours agoStudy: Genital Mutilation Imposes Segregation on Immigrants’ American Daughters0 comments - 11 hours agoClimate Scientist Urges President Trump not to Cave to Ivanka’s ‘Climate Change Madness’0 comments - 1 day agoNew Orleans Begins Removing Civil War-Era Monuments0 comments - 23 hours ago
Study: Genital Mutilation Imposes Segregation on Immigrants’ American Daughters0 CommentsDonald Trump Announces 20 Percent Import Tax on Canadian Softwood Lumber0 CommentsTrump on Holocaust Lessons: ‘We Must Remain Vigilant Against Hateful Ideologies’0 CommentsRABBI SHMULEY: Would Holocaust Have Happened if America Struck Hitler?0 CommentsEXCLUSIVE – Clinton Sex Accusers Slam ‘Hypocritical’ Media over Bill O’Reilly Coverage0 CommentsHannity: No Longer Can the Slander Against Me Slide — ‘I Have Hired a Team of Some of the Best Attorneys in This Country’0 CommentsFar-Left Voters More Likely to Share Their Wives, Right Wingers More Sexually Dominant, Claims Study0 CommentsTrump Tweets: Democrats Help MS-13, Heroin Smugglers by Opposing Border Wall0 CommentsEducation Sec Betsy DeVos: ‘There Isn’t Really Any Common Core Anymore’ in Schools0 CommentsAG Jeff Sessions Delivers Address on White Collar Crime0 CommentsNorth Korea Detains American Professor Without Cause0 CommentsMeasles Outbreak in Minnesota’s Somali Community0 Comments
Big Government Big Journalism Big Hollywood National Security Tech Video Sports The WiresLondon Jerusalem Texas CaliforniaThe Conversation Privacy Policy Terms of Use Breitbart Jobs
