Trump Pennsylvania Rally: President marks first promises made and kept in office | Fox News
Trump Pennsylvania Rally: President marks first promises made and kept in office
President Trump hosted a patriotic rally in Pennsylvania Saturday with thousands of supporters to mark the promises made and promises kept during his first 100 days of action in the White House.
“There is no place I would rather be than right here in Pennsylvania to celebrate our 100-day milestone to reflect on an incredible journey together and to get ready for the great, great battles to come and that we will win in every case,” the president told an enthusiastic throng in Harrisburg. “Make no mistake, we are just beginning in our fight to make America great again!”
Vice President Mike Pence introduced the president as “a man of his word and a man of action,” acknowledging their 2016 “big, beautiful victory” in the blue-leaning state.
This was, of course, miles away from the annual White House Correspondents Dinner, which Trump ceremoniously said he would not attend, amid his repeated accusations about “fake news” and a press corps of “dishonest media” eager to challenge his agenda. At the start of the rally, Trump told the roaring crowd that more than half of Americans say that the media is out of touch with everyday people.
His return to Pennsylvania was a thank you, like the one he delivered to Florida voters last month in Tampa. To screams and cheers, the President said “now arrives the hour of action” –rallying his base with the credo: “Buy American and hire American!”
“For the last 100 days my administration has been delivering every single day for the great citizens of our country, whether it’s putting our coal miners back to work, protecting America’s steel and aluminum workers, or eliminating job killing regulations, we are keeping one promise after another and frankly the people are really happy about it,” Trump said.
President Donald Trump is seen below as he speaks at the Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex and Expo Center in Harrisburg, Pa., Saturday, April, 29, 2017. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
“The previous administration gave us a mess. For decades our country has lived through the greatest jobs’ theft in the history of the world. Our factories were shuttered. Our steel mills closed down," he said. "Our jobs were stolen away and shipped far away to other countries, some of which you have never even heard of. Politicians sent troops to protect the borders of foreign nations but left America’s borders wide open for all to violate.”
Trump also listed several accomplishments including getting Judge Neil Gorsuch appointed to the Supreme Court with relative ease in a politically divided Senate as well as approval of the Keystone pipeline.
McMaster says US must be prepared for military operations in North Korea
Lawmakers reach deal on $1.07 trillion spending bill to fund gov't through September
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
