DELINGPOLE: EPA's Obama-Era Endangerment Finding a Disgrace to Science, Menace to Economy
DELINGPOLE: EPA’s Obama-Era Endangerment Finding a Disgrace to Science, Menace to Economy
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTEROne of the most expensive, intrusive, and far-reaching pieces of legislation in recent U.S. history is a bad smell from the Obama era, motivated by a leftist, anti-capitalist agenda and based on the purest nonsense.
This is why two free market groups have petitioned the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to reconsider its CO2 Endangerment Finding. It was introduced (on Pearl Harbor Day in 2009) for political, not scientific reasons under the Obama Administration and is being used by green activists to hold the U.S. economy for ransom:
Two groups — Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI) and the Concerned Household Electricity Consumers Council (CHECC) — claim EPA’s 2009 “endangerment finding” should be updated with new evidence invalidating the agency’s previous claim greenhouse gases threatened public health.
Their concerns are understandable given that, as CHECC argues in its petition, the flimsy evidence on which EPA based its endangerment finding has now been proven false beyond all reasonable doubt.
The Endangerment Finding purported to find that human-generated greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide constitute a “danger” to human health and welfare because of their effect in warming the atmosphere.
But there is no real-world evidence to support this conclusion, which derives purely from discredited computer models which have increasingly diverged from observed data:
When EPA released its CO2 endangerment finding in 2009, it used three lines of evidence to bolster its argument that greenhouse gases threatened human health through global warming.The crux of EPA’s argument rested on the existence of a “tropical hotspot” where global warming would be most apparent. That is, there should be enhanced warming in the tropical troposphere — the “fingerprint” of global warming.
However, according to a report produced last year by three respected scientists — James P Wallace III, John Christy, and Joe D’Aleo — this Tropical Hotspot (THS) “simply does not exist in the real world.”
This is what is so puzzling about the decision by the EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to request that a clause on the Endangerment Finding be removed from President Trump’s recent Executive Order rescinding the Clean Power Plan.
If Pruitt were an Obama holdover determined to frustrate President Trump’s plans to take on the Green Blob, this would be quite understandable. But he’s not. Pruitt is supposed to be the guy who is going to roll back the Green Agenda which has so dominated U.S. politics under the last few presidencies, most especially under Obama.
There is simply no logical reason not to rescind the Endangerment Finding. Even if — as some frustrated Trump insiders at the EPA say — Pruitt is a “policy coward,” it’s hardly like he’d be taking any legal or scientific risks here.
After all, if the Endangerment Finding is based on the existence of a Tropical Hotspot, and if scientists have provided conclusive evidence (as measured by balloons and satellites in the tropical troposphere) that that Tropical Hotspot simply isn’t there, then both legally and scientifically that Endangerment Finding is a busted flush.
So long as the Endangerment Finding exists, however, all attempts to prise the tentacles of the Green Blob from the U.S. economy are doomed to fail. That’s because organizations like the Sierra Club will file lawsuits demanding that the U.S. government fulfil its duty to protect its citizens from the dangerous threat to their health and safety caused by greenhouse gases such as CO2. And it’s no good arguing that the CO2 menace is a myth: as far as the U.S. statute books are concerned, it’s a clear and present danger.
You might have hoped, being a lawyer and all, Scott Pruitt could have seen this one coming — and taken condign measures to avoid it.
Big Government, Environment, Science, CEI, CHECC, Endangerment Finding, EPA, Scott Pruitt, Tropical Hotspot
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
Putin: Syria Chemical Attack Was ‘False Flag,’ More ‘Provocations’ Coming0 comments - 3 hours agoTillerson: Russia Must Choose Between Assad and the U.S.0 comments - 6 hours agoUnited CEO: Man dragged off plane was ‘disruptive,’ ‘belligerent’0 comments - 2 hours agoGOP Leaders Dropping Border Wall Funds, Says Report0 comments - 19 hours agoExclusive — RNC Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel on 2018: ‘We’re Not Going to Concede Anything’0 comments - 14 hours agoPutin — Who Once Honored Tillerson with Friendship Award — Won’t Meet with Secretary of State0 comments - 18 hours agoDonald Trump’s Pick For Top Economic Adviser Is Pro-Immigration, Pro-Outsourcing0 comments - 2 days agoStockholm Attack Victim Was Psychiatrist ‘Committed to Helping Asylum Seekers’ Facing Deportation0 comments - 5 hours agoTrump Orders Strikes Against Syrian Regime Airbase in Response to Chemical Attack0 comments - 5 days agoVideo: Doctor Forcefully Removed from Overbooked United Airlines Flight After Refusing to Give Up His Seat0 comments - 21 hours ago
Putin: Syria Chemical Attack Was ‘False Flag,’ More ‘Provocations’ Coming0 CommentsTillerson: Russia Must Choose Between Assad and the U.S.0 CommentsDonald Trump Urges China to Solve ‘North Korean Problem’0 CommentsTop House Intel Democrat Rejects Call to Recuse Himself from Russia Probe0 CommentsComedian Hasan Minhaj, Who Called Donald Trump ‘White ISIS,’ to Headline WHCD0 CommentsLow Blow! Oscar De La Hoya Hits Trump, Border Wall in Ad Promoting Cinco de Mayo Bout0 CommentsDuterte Sings Different Tune: Urges U.S. to ‘Help’ Philippines Fight Terrorism0 CommentsTina Brown: Hillary ‘Was Right’ With Comments About Role Misogyny Played In Election0 CommentsBen Rhodes’ ‘Echo Chamber’ Aims at Gorka from Beyond the Grave0 CommentsFitton: Documents Confirm that Obama IRS Improperly Targeted Conservatives0 CommentsPope Francis Goes Forward with Egypt Trip, Despite Jihadist Bombings0 CommentsTrump Administration: Islamic State Defeat Remains Primary Focus in Syria0 Comments
Big Government Big Journalism Big Hollywood National Security Tech Video Sports The WiresLondon Jerusalem Texas CaliforniaThe Conversation Privacy Policy Terms of Use Breitbart Jobs
