SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERRIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) — German Chancellor Angela Merkel arrived on Sunday in Saudi Arabia, where she is expected to press royals on a number of sensitive issues, including taking in refugees, while also boosting important business ties in her first visit to the country in seven years.
Like other high-profile female visitors, Merkel did not cover her hair or wear a traditional flowing black robe upon arrival in the kingdom. She is expected to meet Saudi businesswomen during her two-day visit in a sign of support for women’s rights.
Merkel herself backs a ban in Germany on civil servants wearing face veils and on the face cover being worn in public schools, courts and while driving. Most Saudi women wear the full face veil, known as the niqab, in line with the kingdom’s conservative Wahhabi interpretation of Islam.
Merkel met King Salman in the Red Sea city of Jeddah and is scheduled to visit the United Arab Emirates on Monday. Saudi Arabia and the UAE are Germany’s largest trading partners in the Middle East.
During her talks with Gulf leaders, Merkel is expected to press them to do more to take in refugees and provide humanitarian relief for those fleeing conflict in Muslim-majority countries. Her country has provided refuge to hundreds of thousands of people from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan in recent years.
Merkel is also expected to raise the issue of Saudi Arabia’s funding for religious institutions that may be spreading a fundamentalist version of Islam around the world, including in countries such as Mali and Niger, said senior German officials who spoke on customary conditions of anonymity.
Saudi Arabia recently closed several institutional establishments in Germany following pressure from Berlin, including the private King Fahd Academy in the southern suburbs of Bonn. German authorities had previously expressed concern the school might be used to spread fundamentalist ideology.
Merkel is traveling with a business delegation that includes CEOs of major German companies. The kingdom is seeking to attract investment and diversify its economy away from oil, the backbone of its economy.
The official Saudi Press Agency reported the two sides signed a number of memorandums to enhance cooperation in the fields of technology, energy, business and security.
Despite a drop in oil prices that has forced the kingdom to curb spending, Saudi Arabia remains among the world’s top spenders on defense equipment. While there is no German moratorium on weapons exports to Saudi Arabia, the German government does review deals on a case-by-case basis to ensure any defense equipment sold cannot be used for internal repression.
Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen is also expected to feature in Merkel’s talks with the kingdom’s royals. For more than two years, the kingdom has been bombing Yemeni rebels aligned with Saudi Arabia’s regional Shiite rival, Iran.
Saudi Arabia and Iran also back opposite sides of the conflict in Syria. Germany was one of six international powers that negotiated a nuclear deal with Iran, in opposition to Saudi Arabia’s objections.
Big Government, Breitbart Jerusalem, Breitbart London, Europe migration crisis, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Germany-Saudi Arabia, King Salman, Middle East diplomacy, refugees, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
White House Sources: Reports of Gorka Leaving White House Are ‘Incorrect’0 comments - 8 hours agoMay Day: Anti-Trump Illegal Aliens Vow ‘Biggest Workers Strike in over a Decade’0 comments - 11 hours agoWHCD Host Hasan Minhaj Blasts ‘Liar-in-Chief’ Trump: ‘The Orange Man Behind the Muslim Ban’0 comments - 1 day agoTrump invites Philippines’ Duterte to Washington for talks0 comments - 1 day agoAnn Coulter: Taxpayers Supporting Leftist ‘Thugs’ That Have Taken Over Universities0 comments - 19 hours agoSamantha Bee: America Does Not Have a ‘Smug Liberal Problem’0 comments - 16 hours agoMcCain: Trump Should Release His Tax Returns0 comments - 16 hours agoDemocrats Reel from DNC Chair’s Announcement That Party Will Exclude Pro-Life Candidates0 comments - 2 days agoKudlow: Trump’s Tax Plan a ‘Home Run’0 comments - 7 hours agoTrump to CBS’s Dickerson: ‘I Love Your Show — I Call It Deface the Nation’0 comments - 16 hours ago
White House Sources: Reports of Gorka Leaving White House Are ‘Incorrect’0 CommentsKudlow: Trump’s Tax Plan a ‘Home Run’0 CommentsMay Day: Anti-Trump Illegal Aliens Vow ‘Biggest Workers Strike in over a Decade’0 CommentsEight Injured in Apartment Shooting: Suspect had Beer in One Hand, Gun in Other0 CommentsPelosi: ‘I Never Thought I Would Pray for the Day’ Bush Were President Again0 CommentsBreitbart News Daily: Fake News0 CommentsLA Immigration Activists’ Illegal Immigrant Mother To Be Deported0 CommentsMIT Graduate Dies Trying to Climb the School’s Dome as Part of a Prank0 CommentsTrump to CBS’s Dickerson: ‘I Love Your Show — I Call It Deface the Nation’0 CommentsSchumer: If Trump Changes, We Could Work Together0 CommentsPolitico Magazine: Despite Political Success, NRA Struggles to Attract Black Gun Owners0 CommentsDaniel Defense: Second Amendment Rights Come From God, Not Government0 Comments
Big Government Big Journalism Big Hollywood National Security Tech Video Sports The WiresLondon Jerusalem Texas CaliforniaThe Conversation Privacy Policy Terms of Use Breitbart Jobs
