EXCLUSIVE - Islamic State Supporters Call for More Suicide Attacks Targeting Christians Following Egyptian Church Bombings
EXCLUSIVE – Islamic State Supporters Call for More Suicide Attacks Targeting Christians Following Egyptian Church Bombings
by Aaron Klein and Ali Waked11 Apr 20170 11 Apr, 2017
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERTEL AVIV — Writing in an encrypted message service, Islamic State militants and supporters have celebrated the news of deadly twin suicide bombings at two Coptic churches in Egypt on Palm Sunday.
Breitbart Jerusalem obtained access to correspondence posted in a closed chat group that utilizes the encrypted Telegram messaging service. The chat group serves as an internal Twitter of sorts for IS jihadists and sympathizers, and it has been used in the past to issue IS communications.
In the chat forum, militants sounded off about the suicide bombings for which the Islamic State claimed responsibility via its Aamaq news agency.  Forty-four people were killed in the attacks, which struck St. Mark’s Cathedral, the main Coptic church in Alexandria, and a church in the Nile Delta city of Tanta.
One user who goes by the name of “The Egyptian Abu Abdullah Almassri” was jubilant. He wrote: “Allah, Allah, our beloved brothers in Egypt, the country we left reluctantly but to which we will return as liberators. You, the mujahedeen of Welayat Sinai, should carry out more suicide attacks. Our brothers who have infiltrated the security forces, strike hard. We, your Egyptian brethren, stand right behind you. Unravel this criminal regime. Allah, bless the Islamic State and its soldiers.”
“Allah bless those who undermined Egypt’s security,” user Abu Ruqaya Alhalabi wrote. “Our beloved brothers in the security forces be tough on the infidels. Let the blood of the Christians who have fought against Allah’s religion flow. Kill them whenever you find them.”
Abu Nasser Almassri Almuhajer (the “Immigrant Egyptian”) discussed the two suicide bombers: “Allah, welcome our beloved brothers [the suicide bombers] Abu Isshaq al Massri and Abu Baraa Almassri as martyrs. They sacrificed themselves to Islam and its people.  They avenged the death of our Muslim sisters in the hands of these Christians who live in our country, from where we emigrated in favor of our religion and the oppressed Muslims.”
He continued: “We tell the Christians, the Crusaders and the nonbelievers: We swear to Allah that you’ll see more things that will inflict pain on you. We promise to meet you at Al Aqsa Mosque, we will liberate Rome and humiliate the tyrants and the infidels. From Damascus, we call on our brothers in Waliyat Sinai, in Raqqa, in Mosul, strike hard, and bring more blessings with the bodies of the suicide bombers, so that they would feel the pain of the mujahedeen.”
Referring to the deadly twin suicide bombings, a jihadi in Gaza tied to Islamic State ideology told Breitbart Jerusalem that “these actions cheer up our mujahedeen brothers everywhere.”
He said: “When we see what’s going on in Sweden and we see our friends striking the infidels and Crusaders in Egypt despite all the security precautions, we conclude that in the global war against Islam and the Islamic State, Allah refuses to abandon the mujahedeen and gives them strength to strike his enemies. Our brothers will strike everywhere in Europe, America, Russia, China, and the nonbelieving Arab regimes.”
Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.
Breitbart Jerusalem, Jihad, National Security, Egypt church bombing, IS jihadist, Islamic State militants, islamic terrorism, Middle East Christianity, Palm Sunday, Suicide Bombers
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
Putin: Syria Chemical Attack Was ‘False Flag,’ More ‘Provocations’ Coming0 comments - 3 hours agoTillerson: Russia Must Choose Between Assad and the U.S.0 comments - 6 hours agoUnited CEO: Man dragged off plane was ‘disruptive,’ ‘belligerent’0 comments - 2 hours agoGOP Leaders Dropping Border Wall Funds, Says Report0 comments - 19 hours agoExclusive — RNC Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel on 2018: ‘We’re Not Going to Concede Anything’0 comments - 14 hours agoPutin — Who Once Honored Tillerson with Friendship Award — Won’t Meet with Secretary of State0 comments - 18 hours agoDonald Trump’s Pick For Top Economic Adviser Is Pro-Immigration, Pro-Outsourcing0 comments - 2 days agoStockholm Attack Victim Was Psychiatrist ‘Committed to Helping Asylum Seekers’ Facing Deportation0 comments - 5 hours agoTrump Orders Strikes Against Syrian Regime Airbase in Response to Chemical Attack0 comments - 5 days agoVideo: Doctor Forcefully Removed from Overbooked United Airlines Flight After Refusing to Give Up His Seat0 comments - 21 hours ago
Putin: Syria Chemical Attack Was ‘False Flag,’ More ‘Provocations’ Coming0 CommentsTillerson: Russia Must Choose Between Assad and the U.S.0 CommentsDonald Trump Urges China to Solve ‘North Korean Problem’0 CommentsTop House Intel Democrat Rejects Call to Recuse Himself from Russia Probe0 CommentsComedian Hasan Minhaj, Who Called Donald Trump ‘White ISIS,’ to Headline WHCD0 CommentsLow Blow! Oscar De La Hoya Hits Trump, Border Wall in Ad Promoting Cinco de Mayo Bout0 CommentsDuterte Sings Different Tune: Urges U.S. to ‘Help’ Philippines Fight Terrorism0 CommentsTina Brown: Hillary ‘Was Right’ With Comments About Role Misogyny Played In Election0 CommentsBen Rhodes’ ‘Echo Chamber’ Aims at Gorka from Beyond the Grave0 CommentsFitton: Documents Confirm that Obama IRS Improperly Targeted Conservatives0 CommentsPope Francis Goes Forward with Egypt Trip, Despite Jihadist Bombings0 CommentsTrump Administration: Islamic State Defeat Remains Primary Focus in Syria0 Comments
Big Government Big Journalism Big Hollywood National Security Tech Video Sports The WiresLondon Jerusalem Texas CaliforniaThe Conversation Privacy Policy Terms of Use Breitbart Jobs
