At least 1 dead after ISIS-aligned gunman shoots at cops, takes hostages in French supermarket | Fox News
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2018 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
At least 1 dead after ISIS-aligned gunman shoots at cops, takes hostages in French supermarket
A gunman who reportedly swore allegiance to ISIS has barricaded himself inside a supermarket in southern France, killing at least one person and seriously wounding another.
Local media reports at least 10 others are injured in the incident that the French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said "seems to be a terrorist act."
The French Prime Minister said the incident "seems to be a terrorist act."
Mayor Eric Ménassi told BFM TV the gunman was alone inside the Super U supermarket in the city of Trebes and all other hostages have been released.
The situation began to unfold around 11 a.m. local time on Friday when the gunman opened fired at a group of CRS police officers who were jogging near the city of Carcassonne. One of the officers was shot in the shoulder but the injury is non-life-threatening.
The gunman then took shelter inside the supermarket in Trebes and reportedly yelled “Allahu Akbar!” which roughly translates to “God is Great!” in Arabic.
The suspect also reportedly said "he is ready to die for Syria" and demanded Salah Abdeslam be released from custody. Abdeslam is the lone surviving member of an ISIS terror cell behind the deadly 2015 attacks in Paris that killed 130 people at a theatre, the national stadium and cafes.
The French Interior Ministry said police and rescue operations are the priority at the moment.
The French Interior Ministry said on its Twitter account Friday that police and rescue operations are the priority. Authorities in the Aude region are warning people to avoid the area around the supermarket.
French President Emmanuel Macron has asked Interior Minister Gerard Collomb to go to the site.
France has been on high alert since a string of Islamic extremist attacks in 2015 and 2016 that killed more than 200 people.
At least 1 dead after ISIS-aligned gunman shoots at cops, takes hostages in French supermarket
Israeli teen arrested after urinating on steps of Auschwitz memorial: report
China's 'unity of thought' plan tightens party control over state-run media
How a 2012 attack ushered in an era of terror for France
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2018 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
