NYT: Mexico Owns California and Texas, Will Trade For Amnesty - Breitbart
The New York Times has just published an op-ed article saying that Mexico may give up its rightful claim to ownership of Texas, California and the entire Southwest of the United States, but only if the U.S.  government gives the hugely valuable prize of U.S. citizenship to many millions of Mexicans — plus citizenship for all their kids and grandkids, on and on, forever.
The infinitely valuable compensation is justified because today’s Americans must wipe away the moral stain of war crimes committed in the 1840s by the U.S. military and government, says the op-ed by a Mexican historian and author, Enrique Krauze, who notably declined to forswear a alternative Mexican reconquista of the Southwest.
MEXICO CITY — The United States invasion of Mexico in 1846 inflicted a painful wound that, in the 170 years that followed, turned into a scar. Donald Trump has torn it open again…
… some Mexicans are proposing to remind Mr. Trump exactly what country was the first victim of American imperialism. They are calling for a lawsuit that would aim to nullify the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo (signed on Feb. 2, 1848), in which Mexico — invaded by American soldiers, its capital occupied, its ports and customs stations seized — was forced to accept the American annexation of Texas and concede more than half the rest of Mexican territory, now including most of the states of Arizona, New Mexico and California…
For us Mexicans, this is the chance for a kind of reconquest. Surely not the physical reconquest of the territories that once were ours. Nor an indemnification that should have been much greater than the feeble amount of $15 million that the American government paid, in installments, for the stolen land. We need a reconquest of the memory of that war so prodigal in atrocities inspired by racial prejudices and greed for territorial gain.
But the best and most just reparation would be American immigration reform that could open the road to citizenship for the descendants of those Mexicans who suffered the unjust loss of half their territory.
Curiously, Krauze does not mention Mexicans’ huge moral debt to the Spanish Empire, which successfully annihilated the savage Aztec Empire in the early 1500s at great cost to Spain’s aristocracy. Nor does Krauze mention the huge moral debt owed by Mexico’s population of European immigrants to the many Americans who developed electricity, invented aircraft, the computer, the idea of mass production, cheap autos, modern medicines, and television.
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.
Trump Orders Strikes Against Syrian Regime Airbase in Response to Chemical Attack0 comments - 1 day agoExclusive–Sen. Rand Paul: Would an Originalist Unilaterally Bomb Syria?0 comments - 13 hours agoPentagon: Russia May Have Directly Participated in Syrian Chemical Weapons Attack0 comments - 16 hours agoRepublican Senate Hawks Praise Donald Trump for Bombing Syria0 comments - 23 hours agoJustice Gorsuch: Senate Confirms Trump’s First SCOTUS Pick0 comments - 19 hours agoFarage: ‘A Lot of Trump Voters Will Be Scratching Their Heads’ over Syria Airstrikes0 comments - 20 hours agoSweden Attack: Truck Mows Down Pedestrians in Stockholm0 comments - 22 hours agoNorth Korea: Friendship with Syria ‘Will Be Strengthened and Developed’0 comments - 11 hours agoReport: Russian Warship Heading for U.S. Navy Destroyers that Launched Syria Attack0 comments - 20 hours agoMSNBC’s O’Donnell: Maybe Putin Masterminded Chemical Attack So Trump Could Look Good by Striking Syria0 comments - 8 hours ago
Exclusive — Duck Dynasty’s Phil Robertson: Chuck Schumer, Dems Who Opposed Judge Gorsuch ‘Godless, Lawless’0 CommentsGorka on Syria: ‘This Is Not a Full-Throated War Deployment,’ Just ‘Surgical’ Missile Strike0 CommentsPamela Geller on Syria Strike: ‘What Is the Objective? Which Al-Qaeda Satellite Are We Partnering With?’0 CommentsMSNBC’s O’Donnell: Maybe Putin Masterminded Chemical Attack So Trump Could Look Good by Striking Syria0 CommentsDem Rep Lieu: Trump Might Have Launched Syria Strike to Distract from ‘Possible Collusion with Putin’0 CommentsNorth Korea: Friendship with Syria ‘Will Be Strengthened and Developed’0 CommentsReport: Trump Considering Placing Nuclear Weapons in South Korea as Deterrent to North0 CommentsThe Guardian: Sports Media Leaning Left ‘Vastly Overblown’0 CommentsJack Shafer: Advertiser Boycotts Encourage Corporations to Police Free Speech0 CommentsMaher: Russia Might Not Re-Elect Trump If He ‘Does the Wrong Thing’ in Syria0 CommentsMaher: Gorsuch ‘Has Never Shown Any Empathy Toward a Human Being’0 CommentsMcCain: I Don’t Pay Attention to Rand Paul, ‘He Doesn’t Have Any Real Influence’ in the Senate0 Comments
Big Government Big Journalism Big Hollywood National Security Tech Video Sports The WiresLondon Jerusalem Texas CaliforniaThe Conversation Privacy Policy Terms of Use Breitbart Jobs
