There are some things you simply never want to say at work.
Certain phrases carry special power—they make you look bad even when the words are true. Dr. Travis Bradberry shows you which 10 phrases to avoid.
There are some things you simply never want to say at work.
These phrases carry special power: they have an uncanny ability to make you look bad even when the words are true.
Worst of all, there’s no taking them back once they slip out.
I’m not talking about shocking slips of the tongue, off-color jokes,
or politically incorrect faux pas. These aren’t the only ways to make
Often it’s the subtle remarks—the ones that paint us as incompetent and unconfident—that do the most damage.
No matter how talented you are or what you’ve accomplished, there are
certain phrases that instantly change the way people see you and can
forever cast you in a negative light. These phrases are so loaded with
1. “This is the way it’s always been done.” Technology-fueled change is happening so fast that even a six-month-old process could be outdated. Saying this is the way it’s always been done
not only makes you sound lazy and resistant to change, but it could
make your boss wonder why you haven’t tried to improve things on your
own. If you really are doing things the way they’ve always been done,
2. “It’s not my fault.” It’s never a good idea to cast
blame. Be accountable. If you had any role—no matter how small—in
whatever went wrong, own it. If not, offer an objective, dispassionate
explanation of what happened. Stick to the facts, and let your boss and
colleagues draw their own conclusions about who’s to blame. The moment
you start pointing fingers is the moment people start seeing you as
nervous. Some will avoid working with you altogether, and others will
3. “I can’t.” I can’t is it’s not my fault’s twisted sister. People don’t like to hear I can’t because they think it means I won’t. Saying I can’t suggests
that you’re not willing to do what it takes to get the job done. If you
really can’t do something because you truly lack the necessary skills,
you need to offer an alternative solution. Instead of saying what you can’t do, say what you can
do. For example, instead of saying “I can’t stay late tonight,” say “I
can come in early tomorrow morning. Will that work?” Instead of “I can’t
run those numbers,” say “I don’t yet know how to run that type of
analysis. Is there someone who can show me so that I can do it on my own
4. “It’s not fair.” Everyone knows that life isn’t fair. Saying it’s not fair suggests
that you think life is supposed to be fair, which makes you look
immature and naïve. If you don’t want to make yourself look bad, you
need to stick to the facts, stay constructive, and leave your
interpretation out of it. For instance, you could say, “I noticed that
you assigned Ann that big project I was hoping for. Would you mind
telling me what went into that decision? I’d like to know why you
thought I wasn’t a good fit, so that I can work on improving those
sarcastic phrase makes you sound as though you’re only willing to do the
bare minimum required to keep getting a paycheck, which is a bad thing
if you like job security. If your boss asks you to do something that you
feel is inappropriate for your position (as opposed to morally or
ethically inappropriate), the best move is to complete the task eagerly.
Later, schedule a conversation with your boss to discuss your role in
the company and whether your job description needs an update. This
ensures that you avoid looking petty. It also enables you and your boss
to develop a long-term understanding of what you should and shouldn’t be
6. “This may be a silly idea …/I’m going to ask a stupid question.” These
follow these phrases with a great idea, they suggest that you lack
confidence, which makes the people you’re speaking to lose confidence in
you. Don’t be your own worst critic. If you’re not confident in what
you’re saying, no one else will be either. And, if you really don’t know
something, say, “I don’t have that information right now, but I’ll find
sounds tentative and suggests that you lack confidence in your ability
to execute the task. Take full ownership of your capabilities. If you’re
asked to do something, either commit to doing it or offer an
alternative, but don’t say that you’ll try because it sounds like you
something only takes a minute undermines your skills and gives the
impression that you rush through tasks. Unless you’re literally going to
complete the task in 60 seconds, feel free to say that it won’t take
long, but don’t make it sound as though the task can be completed any
9. “I hate this job.” The last thing anyone wants to
hear at work is someone complaining about how much they hate their job.
Doing so labels you as a negative person and brings down the morale of
the group. Bosses are quick to catch on to naysayers who drag down
to making a disparaging remark about a colleague. If your remark is
accurate, everybody already knows it, so there’s no need to point it
out. If your remark is inaccurate, you’re the one who ends up looking
like a jerk. There will always be rude or incompetent people in any
workplace, and chances are that everyone knows who they are. If you
don’t have the power to help them improve or to fire them, then you have
colleague’s incompetence comes across as an insecure attempt to make you
look better. Your callousness will inevitably come back to haunt you in
These phrases have a tendency to sneak up on you, so you’re going to
have to catch yourself until you’ve solidified the habit of not saying them.
What other phrases should be on this list? Please share your
thoughts in the comments section below as I learn just as much from you
Start your workday the right way with the news that matters most.
Copyright © 2017 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.    "The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.
