Trump University Offers Sarah Palin Honorary Degree in Climate Science | National Report
Trump Reports World Record 39 Under Par, 12 Holes-in-One, During Golf Outing with Japanese Prime Min...
Vladimir Tops the List of Most Popular Baby Names in US
Chuck Norris, Scott Baio Turned Down Trump Administration Roles, Insiders Say
Donald Trump Claims 10 Billion Illegal Immigrants Voted For Hillary Clinton, And That He Has Cured A...
Trump: Ben Carson Perfect For HUD Because ‘It Has The Word Urban In It’
Obama Wants To Be A ‘Private Sector Gun Grabber’ When He Leaves Office
Melania Trump To Promote Healthy School Lunches, More Exercise As First Lady
Mitt Romney Organizing Victims Of Bill Clinton and Donald Trump’s Sexual Abuse Into Binders
Politics Trump University Offers Sarah Palin Honorary Degree in Climate Science
Manhattan – Earlier this morning, Trump University issued degrees to 4,500 students online, and drew the attention of national media when the university announced several high-profile recipients of honorary degrees, sources say. Among those to receive honorary degrees, Sarah Palin was offered a honorary doctorate in climate science, a M.D. in advanced neurosurgery, and a PhD in “having total class”.
“We doctors are the shakers and the movers, the pokers and jokers, the wheelin’ and the stealin’, Obama’s been to that mountaintop, that I can tell you…” Palin told a crowd of the stupidest humans alive Saturday morning. “Let’s get that Trump Train behind us, in front of us, in our hearts, our minds, our mouths… Get the word of mouth out for Donald!”
Palin has been in the headlines this week after questioning whether or not Bill Nye, “The Science Guy” was in fact an actual scientist.   “Bill Nye is as much a scientist as I am,” Palin said at an event in Washington, D.C according to The Hill.  Palin targeted Nye over his statements on global warming featured in the anti-climate change documentary “Climate Hustle”.
Donald also reportedly offered “one hundred degrees from my university” to John Kasich for his delegates, but the Kasich Camp has not responded to our request for comment, and sources close to the governor say he may be holding out for Vice President.
With the announcment, Palin becomes the first minority to receive the prestigious degree without paying an exorbitant amount.
Tags: Bill Nye, climate change, featured, Global Warming, Global Warming Hoax, Palin, Sarah Palin
Retweet this post on TwitterLike this post on FacebookStumbleUpon this postDigg this postBookmark on del.icio.us
Sarah Palin Says No One Gives A Crap About Venice’s Flooded Streets
Vladimir Putin Says He Will Attend Debate as Donald Trump’s Guest
Enter your email address to subscribe to National Report and receive notifications of new posts from America's #1 Independent News Source.
National Report is not intended for children under the age of 18.
© 2017 National Report. All rights reserved. Site Admin · Entries RSS · Comments RSS
