These Celebrities Say They'd Leave the Country If Trump Wins | Fox News Insider
LOOK: Climate Change Protesters Carve Message on Trump Golf Course Green
Survey: 3 in 10 College Students Use Loan Money to Pay for Spring Break
Iowa Students Apologize for Wearing Red, White and Blue to Basketball Game
Rep. Jordan: Fulfill Promise to Voters with 'Clean Repeal' of ObamaCare
LOOK: Climate Change Protesters Carve Message on Trump Golf Course Green
Gutfeld on Trump's 1st 50 Days: 'Who Knew Putin Would Be Such a Good President?'
'Smoldering Pile of Potential Conflicts': Dem Still Trying to Get Trump's Tax Returns
// Donald Trump // 2016 Election // Celebrities // Raven-Symone // Al Sharpton // Whoopi Goldberg // Trending
Richard Dreyfuss and Son Talk About Backlash to Attending Ted Cruz Rally
These celebrities had some, uh, extreme responses to the possibility of Donald Trump winning the White House.
Rev. Al Sharpton has said he’s “reserving my ticket to get out of here if he wins.”
The View’s Whoopi Goldberg said, “I don’t think that’s America. I don’t want it to be America.”
Sienna Miller and Bryan Cranston also made it clear that they intend to leave the U.S. due to a Trump presidency.
Hannity.com published a list of celebrities who have made similar declarations.
Funnily enough, someone on a Nova Scotia island may have the answer to their problems.
An online campaign called “Cape Breton If Donald Trump Wins” is offering Trump haters a new home.
Trump’s sons, Eric and Donald Jr., responded to the remarks on Fox and Friends this morning.
“I’ll buy them their airfare,” said Donald Jr. “Those are endorsements for Trump.”
Update: After Trump's stunning win, many celebrities took to social media to express their dismay and disbelief. Watch the Fox 411 report below.
'The Highest Level of Integrity': Cruz Hits Back on 'Dirty Tricks' Accusations
Pavlich: Personal Attacks in the GOP Race Are an 'Embarrassing Display'
Ben Carson: I've Been Offered Money, Political Support to Drop Out
Stay connected with the most-trusted name in cable news through exclusive videos, show highlights and behind-the-scenes details.
LOOK: Climate Change Protesters Carve Message on Trump Golf Course Green
Survey: 3 in 10 College Students Use Loan Money to Pay for Spring Break
Iowa Students Apologize for Wearing Red, White and Blue to Basketball Game
Newt Gingrich weighs in on Russia and Judge Andrew Napolitano talks Trump's new travel ban on The First 100 Days.
On The O'Reilly Factor, Watters attempts to track down anyone who can explain ObamaCare and its replacement. Plus, Bill has a powerful Talking Points.
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise discusses health care, Russia and wiretap allegations on Tucker Carlson Tonight. Then at 10pm ET, don't miss a must-see Hannity.
Huckabee Slams Anti-Trump Press: 'The Zenith of What People Are Disgusted By'
Mike Huckabee slammed a TIME magazine story that said President Trump's opposition to Washington bureaucracy could come at the expense of our democracy.
Dr. James Mitchell, a U.S. Air Force veteran and former CIA interrogator, said the person or persons who leaked secret CIA information regarding the agency's hacking ability are "traitors."
Rep. Brady: GOP Health Care Bill Isn't 'ObamaCare Lite,' It's 'ObamaCare Gone'
House Republicans this week released their plan for an Obamacare replacement, calling it the American Health Care Act, only to come under fire from both the left and the right.
Dem Rep: Trump's 'Absurd' Wiretap Claims Part of His 'Ready, Shoot, Aim' Approach
A Democratic congressman said on "The O'Reilly Factor" that President Trump's charge that former President Barack Obama wiretapped his namesake tower is another example of his "ready, shoot, aim" a
Kellyanne Conway, a top adviser to President Donald Trump, said on "The O'Reilly Factor" the administration is confident that the second iteration of the executive travel ban will "pass legal muster...
WATCH: Watters Checks Out The Alamo on the Anniversary of the Siege
On the 181st anniversary of the fall of the Alamo during the Texas Revolution, Jesse Watters headed down to San Antonio, Texas to ask the folks about the battle.
Author Ann Coulter said that immigration authorities should concentrate their efforts to stop the immigration of people who "rip off government programs."
Charles Krauthammer reacted to President Trump's first month in office, saying there has been an uptick in confidence in Washington, but that we may not be "winning" enough yet-- borrowing the...
'Day Without Women' Supporter Battles Tucker: It Was 'Day of Action, Not Fun'
Bustle editor Julie Alvin discussed Wednesday's "Day Without Women" with Tucker Carlson, saying the demonstrations and departures from work illustrated women's importance in society.
Tomi Lahren: Lack of Outrage Over Samantha Bee Shows 'Hypocrisy of the Left'
Tomi Lahren, host of "Tomi" on The Blaze TV, said there is a double standard when it comes to criticisms of media hosts and comedians when they cross the line.
Horowitz: Dems Putting Gov't in 'A Civil War Situation' in Wake of Wiretap Allegations
Author David Horowitz said the apparent partisan actions of Democrats in the wake of allegations of Russian ties and wiretapping of President Trump and his allies is "a civil war situation."
Hannity: Time for Trump to 'Purge' Obama Holdovers From Executive Branch
Sean Hannity thinks President Donald Trump should fire all the "deep state, Obama holdover" government bureaucrats, because many are "hellbent" on destroying his presidency.
Now you can watch FOX News Channel and FOX Business Network 24/7 live from your desktop, tablet and smart phone.
Don't want to keep checking back here for the latest from Fox News? That's cool. We'll come to you ...
Stay connected with the most-trusted name in cable news through exclusive videos, show highlights and behind-the-scenes details.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
