These Celebrities Say They'd Leave the Country If Trump Wins | Fox News Insider
McCain: If GOP 'Blows' ObamaCare Replacement, It Helps Dems in 2018
WATCH: Texas GOP Rep. Barton Tells Man to 'Shut Up' at Heated Town Hall
West: Snoop Dogg Should Be Investigated for Trump Mock Assassination Video
Buchanan on Trump Campaign & Russia: 'Indict Them or Shut Up'
'When Can We Trust the President?': Spicer Battles Reporter Over Trump Claims
ACLU Tells Trump Resistance: 'We'll Do Work in Courts, You Do Work in Streets'
Wednesday, 9pm ET: Don't miss Tucker Carlson's interview with President Trump.
// Donald Trump // 2016 Election // Celebrities // Raven-Symone // Al Sharpton // Whoopi Goldberg // Trending
Richard Dreyfuss and Son Talk About Backlash to Attending Ted Cruz Rally
These celebrities had some, uh, extreme responses to the possibility of Donald Trump winning the White House.
Rev. Al Sharpton has said he’s “reserving my ticket to get out of here if he wins.”
The View’s Whoopi Goldberg said, “I don’t think that’s America. I don’t want it to be America.”
Sienna Miller and Bryan Cranston also made it clear that they intend to leave the U.S. due to a Trump presidency.
Hannity.com published a list of celebrities who have made similar declarations.
Funnily enough, someone on a Nova Scotia island may have the answer to their problems.
An online campaign called “Cape Breton If Donald Trump Wins” is offering Trump haters a new home.
Trump’s sons, Eric and Donald Jr., responded to the remarks on Fox and Friends this morning.
“I’ll buy them their airfare,” said Donald Jr. “Those are endorsements for Trump.”
Update: After Trump's stunning win, many celebrities took to social media to express their dismay and disbelief. Watch the Fox 411 report below.
'The Highest Level of Integrity': Cruz Hits Back on 'Dirty Tricks' Accusations
Pavlich: Personal Attacks in the GOP Race Are an 'Embarrassing Display'
Ben Carson: I've Been Offered Money, Political Support to Drop Out
Stay connected with the most-trusted name in cable news through exclusive videos, show highlights and behind-the-scenes details.
McCain: If GOP 'Blows' ObamaCare Replacement, It Helps Dems in 2018
WATCH: Texas GOP Rep. Barton Tells Man to 'Shut Up' at Heated Town Hall
West: Snoop Dogg Should Be Investigated for Trump Mock Assassination Video
House Speaker Paul Ryan joins Martha MacCallum on The First 100 Days to discuss the GOP ObamaCare replacement, leaked audio of him trashing President Trump and much more.
U.S. combat troops are now involved in Syria, Iraq and Yemen. Bill investigates on a must-see O'Reilly Factor.
Sean's covering the administration’s every angle: From the president’s press battle to the high stakes health care fight. Laura Ingraham weighs-in on a powerful Hannity.
Filmmaker Slams Michael Brown Case: 'My Film Will Show the Public The Truth'
A documentary filmmaker engaged in a heated debate surrounding his new film, which contends that Michael Brown did not rob a Ferguson, Mo. convenience store prior to his ultimately fatal 2014...
Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) slammed the Congressional Budget Office, which released a critical score of the Republicans' ObamaCare replacement bill, declaring that it should be...
Huckabee Slams Anti-Trump Press: 'The Zenith of What People Are Disgusted By'
Mike Huckabee slammed a TIME magazine story that said President Trump's opposition to Washington bureaucracy could come at the expense of our democracy.
This week, Jesse Watters traveled down to Union Square in Manhattan to ask the folks about ObamaCare.
He also asked if they knew how the Affordable Care Act functions.
In his Talking Points Memo tonight, Bill O'Reilly broke down the ObamaCare debate and what both Democrats and Republicans are fighting for in the health care battle.
Dem Rep: Trump's 'Absurd' Wiretap Claims Part of His 'Ready, Shoot, Aim' Approach
A Democratic congressman said on "The O'Reilly Factor" that President Trump's charge that former President Barack Obama wiretapped his namesake tower is another example of his "ready, shoot, aim" a
Steve King Stands Firm on Geert Wilders Tweet: All About Culture, Not Race
On Monday, Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) reiterated a sentiment he shared in a tweet in which he praised a controversial Dutch politician who commented about culture and demographics.
President Donald Trump will sit down with Tucker Carlson for an interview that will air Wednesday at 9:00 p.m. ET on Fox News Channel.
Author Ann Coulter said that immigration authorities should concentrate their efforts to stop the immigration of people who "rip off government programs."
Buchanan on Trump Campaign & Russia: 'Indict Them or Shut Up'
Former Republican presidential candidate Pat Buchanan said Monday that if someone in the Trump campaign colluded with Russia, they should be indicted, or the issue should go away.
Tomi Lahren: Lack of Outrage Over Samantha Bee Shows 'Hypocrisy of the Left'
Tomi Lahren, host of "Tomi" on The Blaze TV, said there is a double standard when it comes to criticisms of media hosts and comedians when they cross the line.
Horowitz: Dems Putting Gov't in 'A Civil War Situation' in Wake of Wiretap Allegations
Author David Horowitz said the apparent partisan actions of Democrats in the wake of allegations of Russian ties and wiretapping of President Trump and his allies is "a civil war situation."
Now you can watch FOX News Channel and FOX Business Network 24/7 live from your desktop, tablet and smart phone.
Don't want to keep checking back here for the latest from Fox News? That's cool. We'll come to you ...
Stay connected with the most-trusted name in cable news through exclusive videos, show highlights and behind-the-scenes details.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
