Trump Using Brown Paper Bag Test at Rally's, No Dark Skin Blacks Allowed - TRENDING
Trump Using Brown Paper Bag Test at Rally’s, No Dark Skin Blacks...
Trump Using Brown Paper Bag Test at Rally’s, No Dark Skin Blacks Allowed
Donald Trump has sent the Internet into a frenzy again today by adding a new stipulation for people that come to see him speak at his campaign rally’s and it’s called the “Brown Paper Bag Test”
For those unfamiliar with the brown paper test, it’s where the skin tone of African-Americans were visually measured against an actual brown paper bag; individuals lighter than the bag were labeled with more positive attributes compared to dark skin males and females.
It gained popularity after the abolishment of slavery in 1865 and unconsciously, this test still seems to exists within the black community, especially when it comes to dating. Preference is natural in any aspect of life but within the black community bias stereotypes can fog decisions and lead to unhealthy relationships.
Now Donald Trump has decided to use this test at all future campaign rally’s and if you are not lighter than the brown paper bag you will not gain entry into any of his Pep Rally’s.
“It’s not about black or white, it’s about rich and poor, class and no class, which side are you on? I’m on America’s side and I will make her Great again”
Previous articleMan Claiming To Be Chief Keefs Dad Suing for $500,000Next articleKatt Williams Gets Choked Out By 17 Year Old Boy (VIDEO)
Sean Kingston In Critical Condition After Being Beaten & Stomped On By Migos
Girl Tests Plumber Boyfriend With Sexy Woman Offering A BJ For His Service
Angry Woman Cuts Off Man’s Penis for Not Making Eye Contact During Sex
Sean Kingston In Critical Condition After Being Beaten & Stomped On...
Girl Tests Plumber Boyfriend With Sexy Woman Offering A BJ For...
Angry Woman Cuts Off Man’s Penis for Not Making Eye Contact...
Guy Breaks Arm Trying To Impress Girl Riding Down Escalator Flashing...
Girl Being Called The ‘Sexy John Cena’ Destroys “Hater” With Brutal...
Mexican Police Gun Down Cartel Leader “El H2” From a Helicopter...
Undertakers CRASH Funeral and SEIZE DEAD BODY Because They Hadn’t FULLY...
Alleged Nekkid Pics Of The 14-Year-Old ‘CASH ME OUTSIDE’ Girl ....
Man Releases Video of How His Baby Mama Tricked Him into...
Lesbian tricked man into getting her pregnant and then dumped him
