Hannity (PICS): Donald Trump Reportedly Sent One Of His Planes To Transport 200 Stranded Marines - American Military News
Hannity (PICS): Donald Trump Reportedly Sent One Of His Planes To Transport 200 Stranded Marines
After hearing that about 200 Marines left stranded after returning home from Operation Desert Storm back in 1991, Donald J.Trump reportedly came to the aid of those Marines by sending one of his “shuttle” planes to Camp Lejuene, North Carolina to transport them back home to their families in Miami, Florida.If you have tips you want American Military News to investigate please email [email protected]. Your identity will be protected.
Corporal Ryan Stickney was amongst the group that was stuck in North Carolina and could not make their way back to their homes. Stickey told Hannity.com that he had spent nearly six months serving in Operation Desert Storm between 1990 and 1991 and was eagerly awaiting his return home.
Stickney spent the next few weeks after returning from Saudi Arabia in North Carolina at Camp Lejuene to wind down. Stickney and the 200 Marines were set to return home until an error had been made in the logistics unit and a plane wouldn’t be able to take the Marines home on the date they were set to arrive.
Trump reportedly got word of the situation and decided to send a plane to help the stranded Marines.
“The way the story was told to us was that Mr. Trump found out about it and sent the airline down to take care of us. And that’s all we knew….I remember asking ‘Who is Donald Trump?’ I truly didn’t know anything about him,” Stickney said.
Stickeny says that he and his family is forever grateful for lending a hand. His father, a former Eastern Airlines captain and Korean War veteran, even offered Trump a free ride as a way to say thank you for his kind services.
Next story Chinese Fighter Jets Intercept U.S. Military Aircraft That Was On Routine Patrol
Previous story How Many Footballs Does It Take To Stop Bullets Shot From A Glock 19?
Op-Ed: A Look At The Conflicts In The Middle East From A Historical Perspective
See A Display Of The World’s Largest & Most Impressive Fleet Of Military Ships
Watch As Marines & Soldiers Shoot Devastating 40mm Mark-19 Grenade Launcher Rounds Down Range
Alabama Air National Guard Fighting Falcons Participate In Exercise Red Flag Against Spanish Air Force At Nellis Air Force Base
A Look At The Deployment Of The THAAD Missile Defense System That Is Giving China & North Korea Something To Think About
The U.S. Navy 3rd Medical Battalion Undergoes Basic U.S. Marine Combat Training During Field Training Exercise In Okinawa
