Nancy Reagan’s Last Words: ‘Do Not Vote For Donald Trump’ | National Report
Trump Reports World Record 39 Under Par, 12 Holes-in-One, During Golf Outing with Japanese Prime Min...
Vladimir Tops the List of Most Popular Baby Names in US
Chuck Norris, Scott Baio Turned Down Trump Administration Roles, Insiders Say
Donald Trump Claims 10 Billion Illegal Immigrants Voted For Hillary Clinton, And That He Has Cured A...
Trump: Ben Carson Perfect For HUD Because ‘It Has The Word Urban In It’
Obama Wants To Be A ‘Private Sector Gun Grabber’ When He Leaves Office
Melania Trump To Promote Healthy School Lunches, More Exercise As First Lady
Mitt Romney Organizing Victims Of Bill Clinton and Donald Trump’s Sexual Abuse Into Binders
Politics Nancy Reagan’s Last Words: ‘Do Not Vote For Donald Trump’
LOS ANGELES, Calif. – Former first lady Nancy Reagan, who died on March 6 at the age of 94, remained mentally alert “until the very end,” according to a private nurse, who told reporters Mrs. Reagan’s last words to her were, “Do not vote for Donald Trump.”
“She watched all the [GOP] debates,” said the nurse, identified as Althea Thoone. “She was very alert and kept up with all the news and current events, especially about the election. She said no true Republican would cast a vote for Donald Trump.”
“She was not happy at all because I don’t believe she thought Donald Trump was a real Republican. She took a turn for the worse after the [11th] debate when he started talking about his private parts, and all that other nonsense about Mitt Romney getting down on his knees.”
During the debate held on March 4, Trump responded to Romney’s public attack against him by saying, “He was begging for my endorsement. I could have said, ‘Mitt, drop to your knees.’ He would have dropped to his knees.”
Trump also alluded to the size of his penis during the debate, responding to a joke about the size of his hands told by Florida Sen. Marco Rubio.
The so-called 11th Commandment, Thou shalt not speak ill of another Republican, once espoused by Ronald Reagan, now seems to be a relic from the past, when a kinder, gentler political sensibility existed in Washington, at least between members of the same party.
“He broke that commandment, and a few others too, as far as I’m concerned,” said Thoone, who became somewhat of a confidant to Mrs. Reagan in her last years. “She remembered that crack he made about her not being ‘very beautiful’ too.”
“I wouldn’t say Donald Trump caused her to pass, because that’s up to the Lord, but he certainly didn’t help any. She couldn’t believe what she was seeing and hearing up there. She would just look over to me and shake her head.”
Thoone reports that Mrs. Reagan hoped to attend at least one of the GOP debates, but the strain of travel and her advanced age prevented such a trip. She was happy to see George H.W. Bush and former first lady Barbara at the Feb. 25 debate, says Thoone.
Mrs. Reagan’s last public appearance was on July 6, 2015, at her 94th birthday celebration.
Tags: #debates2016, #DonaldTrump, #MittRomney, #nancyreagan, #nancyreaganfuneral, #nevertrump, Donald Trump, GOP, GOP Debate, Mitt Romney, Nancy REagan, Penis
Originally from the Langerhans Islets, Alexander Crouton-Skitch practices journalism with what he calls "a motivational surgeon's scalpel."
As co-founder and charter member of the Longines Symphonette Society, he is proud to be internationally recognized as its President Emeritus.
Retweet this post on TwitterLike this post on FacebookStumbleUpon this postDigg this postBookmark on del.icio.us
Trump Reports World Record 39 Under Par, 12 Holes-in-One, During Golf Outing with Japanese Prime Minister
Vladimir Tops the List of Most Popular Baby Names in US
Enter your email address to subscribe to National Report and receive notifications of new posts from America's #1 Independent News Source.
National Report is not intended for children under the age of 18.
© 2017 National Report. All rights reserved. Site Admin · Entries RSS · Comments RSS
