These Celebrities Say They'd Leave the Country If Trump Wins | Fox News Insider
SEE IT: Air Force Major Surprises Son at School for Emotional Reunion
LOOK: Spicer Treated Like a Rock Star at Trump's Nashville Rally
DETAILS: Some Miners Are Going Back to Work in Coal Country
WATCH: Malkin Blasts 'Tyrant' Federal Judges After Rulings Against Travel Ban
LOOK: Spicer Treated Like a Rock Star at Trump's Nashville Rally
WATCH: Malkin Blasts 'Tyrant' Federal Judges After Rulings Against Travel Ban
Trump: If ObamaCare Replacement Doesn't Meet Standards, I Won't Sign It
Krauthammer on Court Blocking 2nd Travel Ban: 'This Has Become a Sideshow'
// Donald Trump // 2016 Election // Celebrities // Raven-Symone // Al Sharpton // Whoopi Goldberg // Trending
Richard Dreyfuss and Son Talk About Backlash to Attending Ted Cruz Rally
These celebrities had some, uh, extreme responses to the possibility of Donald Trump winning the White House.
Rev. Al Sharpton has said he’s “reserving my ticket to get out of here if he wins.”
The View’s Whoopi Goldberg said, “I don’t think that’s America. I don’t want it to be America.”
Sienna Miller and Bryan Cranston also made it clear that they intend to leave the U.S. due to a Trump presidency.
Hannity.com published a list of celebrities who have made similar declarations.
Funnily enough, someone on a Nova Scotia island may have the answer to their problems.
An online campaign called “Cape Breton If Donald Trump Wins” is offering Trump haters a new home.
Trump’s sons, Eric and Donald Jr., responded to the remarks on Fox and Friends this morning.
“I’ll buy them their airfare,” said Donald Jr. “Those are endorsements for Trump.”
Update: After Trump's stunning win, many celebrities took to social media to express their dismay and disbelief. Watch the Fox 411 report below.
'The Highest Level of Integrity': Cruz Hits Back on 'Dirty Tricks' Accusations
Pavlich: Personal Attacks in the GOP Race Are an 'Embarrassing Display'
Ben Carson: I've Been Offered Money, Political Support to Drop Out
Stay connected with the most-trusted name in cable news through exclusive videos, show highlights and behind-the-scenes details.
SEE IT: Air Force Major Surprises Son at School for Emotional Reunion
LOOK: Spicer Treated Like a Rock Star at Trump's Nashville Rally
DETAILS: Some Miners Are Going Back to Work in Coal Country
From the ongoing ObamaCare battle to Trump's crucial tax cuts, Mike Huckabee, Chris Stirewalt and Lisa Boothe share insight on The First 100 Days.
It's being kept very quiet, but U.S. troops are fighting terrorists on the ground in the Middle East. Bill has a must-see report on The O'Reilly Factor.
The Washington, D.C.  investigations escalate and Charles Krauthammer has analysis on Tucker Carlson Tonight. Then, at 10 PM ET, don't miss Laura Ingraham and Bill Bennett on a powerful Hannity.
'This is Ancient History': Ryan Blasts Leaked Audio of Him Criticizing Trump
House Speaker Paul Ryan reacted to the release of leaked audio of him criticizing then-Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump.
Filmmaker Slams Michael Brown Case: 'My Film Will Show the Public The Truth'
A documentary filmmaker engaged in a heated debate surrounding his new film, which contends that Michael Brown did not rob a Ferguson, Mo. convenience store prior to his ultimately fatal 2014...
Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) slammed the Congressional Budget Office, which released a critical score of the Republicans' ObamaCare replacement bill, declaring that it should be...
O'Reilly: 'The American Media Has Now Become a Circus of Ideology & Cynicism'
The President Trump tax return reveal, courtesy of MSNBC, shows how the American media has become a "circus of ideology and cynicism," Bill O'Reilly said in his Talking Points Memo tonight.
This week, Jesse Watters traveled down to Union Square in Manhattan to ask the folks about ObamaCare.
He also asked if they knew how the Affordable Care Act functions.
In his Talking Points Memo tonight, Bill O'Reilly broke down the ObamaCare debate and what both Democrats and Republicans are fighting for in the health care battle.
Trump: If ObamaCare Replacement Doesn't Meet Standards, I Won't Sign It
Tucker Carlson sat down for a wide-ranging interview with President Trump during his trip to Michigan, where he discussed wiretapping, his tax returns and ObamaCare.
Tucker Debates Dem Who Launched Website on Trump's Alleged Russia Ties
On Tuesday, Tucker Carlson debated a Democratic congressman about the merits of a new webpage he created that delves into President Trump's alleged connections to Russia.
Steve King Stands Firm on Geert Wilders Tweet: All About Culture, Not Race
On Monday, Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) reiterated a sentiment he shared in a tweet in which he praised a controversial Dutch politician who commented about culture and demographics.
In his Opening Monologue on Wednesday, Sean Hannity said MSNBC's televised release of a leaked portion of President Trump's 2005 tax return is the latest in a "corporate jihad" against the president.
Buchanan on Trump Campaign & Russia: 'Indict Them or Shut Up'
Former Republican presidential candidate Pat Buchanan said Monday that if someone in the Trump campaign colluded with Russia, they should be indicted, or the issue should go away.
Tomi Lahren: Lack of Outrage Over Samantha Bee Shows 'Hypocrisy of the Left'
Tomi Lahren, host of "Tomi" on The Blaze TV, said there is a double standard when it comes to criticisms of media hosts and comedians when they cross the line.
Now you can watch FOX News Channel and FOX Business Network 24/7 live from your desktop, tablet and smart phone.
Don't want to keep checking back here for the latest from Fox News? That's cool. We'll come to you ...
Stay connected with the most-trusted name in cable news through exclusive videos, show highlights and behind-the-scenes details.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
