John Oliver has the Donald Trump takedown America has been waiting for - Vox
John Oliver has the Donald Trump takedown America has been waiting for
On Sunday's Last Week Tonight, John Oliver finally took on billionaire Donald Trump.
"I get that the character of Donald Trump is entertaining, and that he says things that people want to hear," Oliver said. "And I know that his very name is powerful."
But Oliver argued that Trump isn't what he seems. Here are some of the qualities many supporters have listed about Trump — and Oliver's counterpoints:
"He tells it like it is": "Does he? Because the website PolitiFact checked 77 of his statements, and rated 76 percent of them as varying degrees of false."
"He is truly independent and not beholden to anyone": "While it is true that he hasn't taken corporate money, the implication that he has personally spent $20 to $25 million is a bit of a stretch, because what he's actually done is loaned his own campaign $17.5 million and has just personally given just $250,000. And that's important, because up until the convention he can pay himself back for the loan with campaign funds."
"He's tough": "For a tough guy, he has incredibly thin skin. Back in 1988, Spy magazine called him a short-fingered vulgarian. And ever since, the editor Graydon Carter says he receives envelopes from Trump, always with a photo on which he circled his hand to highlight the length of his fingers, usually with a note reading, 'See, not so short!'"
"His success": "While yes, he has made more money than most of us will make in a lifetime, not only did he get a multimillion-dollar inheritance from his father, but he's also lost a huge amount." Oliver then played a clip of Trump's daughter saying, "I remember once my father and I were walking down Fifth Avenue and there was a homeless person sitting right outside of Trump Tower. And I remember my father pointing to him and saying, 'You know, that guy has $8 billion more than me.' Because he was in such extreme debt at that point."
Oliver also noted one other issue with Trump: He's wildly inconsistent. "He's been pro-choice and pro-life, for and against assault weapon bans, in favor of both bringing in Syrian refugees and deporting them out of the country."
Or take Trump's inconsistent statements on former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke's endorsement of Trump. To CNN, Trump said, "I don't know anything about David Duke. Okay? I don't know anything about what you're even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists."
Oliver was not having it, pointing to Trump's past remarks to journalists: "Really? That's your best answer there? Because you definitely know who he is — partly because you called him 'a bigot' and 'a racist' in the past."
Oliver concluded that the best way to take down Trump is to uncouple him from his brand — his name. And it turns out that the Trump family's name was once Drumpf. Oliver explained how this could work:
If you are thinking of voting for Donald Trump, the charismatic guy promising to make America great again, stop and take a moment to imagine how you would feel if you just met a guy named Donald Drumpf, a litigious serial liar with a string of broken business ventures and the support of a former Klan leader who he can't decide whether or not to condemn. Would you think he would make a good president, or is the spell now somewhat broken?
"That is why tonight I am asking America to make Donald Drumpf again," Oliver added.
Oliver then announced the launch of the #MakeDonaldDrumpfAgain and the website DonaldJDrumpf.com, where anyone can download a browser extension that replaces Trump's name with Drumpf.
"We cannot keep getting blinded by the magic of his name," Oliver said. "So please, don't think of him as Donald Trump. Think of him as something else."
Trump's budget has a radical plan for remaking US foreign policy
The Weeds: where does the Republican health plan go from here?
Trump's wiretapping claim was just shot down by the heads of the Senate Intel Committee
Trump’s attacks on judges who don’t agree with him might be alienating the judges who do
Trump to Tucker Carlson: “I know” counties that voted for me will lose under the Republican health plan
Iron Fist isn’t bad because critics don’t get it. It’s bad because Marvel doesn’t get its hero.
Iron Fist star Finn Jones will blame everything except his show for being bad.
With Trump’s new travel order blocked and his health bill flailing, his agenda's in tatters
Neither fight is over, but things haven’t been going well for the president on either front.
Trump’s defense of his wiretapping claim is an incredible word salad
The president says, "I've been seeing a lot of things," talks about how much money Celebrity Apprentice made for NBC.
This Article has a component height of 18. The sidebar size is long.
A 3-pronged repeal-and-replace strategy can only get the GOP so far.
Trump's budget has a radical plan for remaking US foreign policy
The budget won’t pass. But what it says about the president is really, really important.
The Weeds: where does the Republican health plan go from here?
Trump's wiretapping claim was just shot down by the heads of the Senate Intel Committee
Powerful Republicans are basically saying Trump made the whole thing up.
“Make no mistake: These numbers would be crippling to much of the federal science apparatus.”
Tesla spends billions on factories. Uber spends billions on pointless price wars.
