Sarah Palin To Become The Vice President Running Mate For The 2nd Time - American News - Breaking News, Political News and Updates
Sarah Palin To Become The Vice President Running Mate For The 2nd Time
In a recent interview, former Alaska governor Sarah Palin commented that she isn’t ruling out the possibility of becoming a vice presidential candidate for Donald Trump. Still, she expressed concerns that her position on the campaign trail could do more harm than good.
When asked about the issue on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, Palin called herself a ‘realist’ and acknowledged that a run for office would bring a ton of controversy.
“Well, I want to help and not hurt, and I am such a realist that I realize there are a whole lot of people out there who would say ‘anybody but Palin,’” the former GOP vice presidential nominee commented.
“So, you know, I just – I just want the guy to win,” she added. “I want American to win. And I don’t know if I would be the person that would be able to help him win, Jake.”
Palin did point out, however, that Palin has already had her background investigated ruthlessly.
“I think I’m pretty much as vetted as anybody in the country,” Palin commented. “So, I think there are so many other great people out there in America who can serve in this position. I think if someone wanted to choose me, they already know who I am, what I stand for. They wouldn’t be in for any surprises.”
Palin would be a controversial pick, there is no doubt, but Trump could do a lot worse. She served John McCain well in his 2008 campaign for president.
Palin has an energy that could match Trump’s on the trail, and there is no question that she is a tried and true conservative.
What do you think of Palin? Would she make a good Vice President?
Trump Chosen By God To Stop America's Destruction Astounding 2011 Prophecy
Watch What Happens When These Muslims Tried To Force American’s To Submit To Sharia… Big Mistake
This week Chaz Bono, the daughter of Cher and Sonny Bono who now identifies as a man, was outraged when Immigration and Customs Enforcement apprehended the assistant of his housekeeper….
Afghanistan Ambassador Drops Bombshell About Trump And Obama… Here’s The Truth
There is no question that President Donald Trump is shaking things up in this country, providing a very different style of leadership than what we saw under President Barack Obama….
Tucker Carlson Destroys Lib Commentator So Badly She Forgets How To Speak [VIDEO]
Fox News’ Tucker Carlson has been pulling in some amazing ratings in Megyn Kelly’s former time slot with his show. It’s clear that his head-on approach to taking on liberal…
The North East Just Got Devastating News… Please Send Your Prayers
According to recent reports, the Northeast is facing blizzard conditions and up to 2 feet of snow in a storm that is expected to last through Tuesday. “Especially given the…
President Donald Trump has wasted no time cracking down on illegal immigration. Now that he is busy fulfilling his campaign promise, the mainstream media has been trying to portray illegal…
Recent PostsWatch What Happens When These Muslims Tried To Force American’s To Submit To Sharia… Big MistakeMar 13, 2017Afghanistan Ambassador Drops Bombshell About Trump And Obama… Here’s The TruthMar 13, 2017Tucker Carlson Destroys Lib Commentator So Badly She Forgets How To Speak [VIDEO]Mar 13, 2017The North East Just Got Devastating News… Please Send Your PrayersMar 13, 2017Terrifying News Out Of California… Trump Was RightMar 13, 2017
