Should Canada become the 51st US state? Join the debate on Facebook and Twitter | Trump Canada Independence
DONALD J. Trump has told Fox and Friends that he believes the U.S. “should never have allowed” Canada to gain independence. The republican candidate for president freely admits to being “a little rusty” on Canadian history, but feels confident that the United States owned Canada “at some point”, and claims giving it back was a “major mistake”.
The former reality tv star was responding to a question about Puerto Rico possibly becoming the 51st state of the US, when he made the statement. “It used to be 51 you know, when we had Canada,” Trump said, pointing to an American flag, “Or 52 if you count Mexico which I never will, no matter how much they beg.”
The interviewer Brian Kilmeade, seemed unmoved by Trump’s remark and asked him to explain his understanding of Canadian/American history, as the Fox host began scribbling notes:
“I personally think it was the biggest mistake in American history, giving Canada back. Look at that place now, it’s falling to pieces. It’s overrun by godless, gunless hippies and it’s such a shame to see.”
As the host nodded along, Trump explained that America got a “terrible deal” with Canada who “stole” the land over a thousand years ago “or something like that”.
“It was a truly awful deal. Canada gets Toronto and Vancouver, which has the hottest women, and what did we get? Alaska? The Florida of Canada? Such a terrible deal.”
LATEST: Donald Trump Claims He Will Buy Canada if Clinton Gets Elected | Trump Canada Independence
“Well what are you going to do if elected?” Kilmeade asked. “Forcefully take Canada and claim it as part of America?”
“I think that’s gotta be an option,” Trump responded. “You know, they’ve got a lot of oil up there, a lot.”
“I’m not sure there is any evidence to support this theory, Donald,” Kilmeade intervened. “I mean wasn’t Canada founded by Britain and France who invaded–” “No, are you kidding me?” Trump interrupted. “You think that either of those guys know the first thing about war? No Canada has belonged to America since Jesus’ time, and that’s a fact.”
Shortly after the controversial interview, Trump reiterated his stance towards Canada with a tweet that was deleted 20 minutes later, not before being retweeted over 6,000 times.
Should Canada become the 51st state of America? Join the debate on Facebook and Twitter…
Total: 226.4K Facebook225.5K Twitter436 Reddit23 Google+89 Pinterest27 Stumble0 LinkedIn323 Tumblr Email88
Trump, Pence & Bannon Unable To Come To Consensus On What Day World Should End
Lady Who Raised 10 Vegan Cats Claims The One That Lived Is Doing Great
Wrong Oscar Accountants Get Death Threats After Mailman Mixes Up Envelopes
Did you know the BSJ is on the internet?37,865FansLike732FollowersFollow92SubscribersSubscribe BREAKING NEWS:
Trump, Pence & Bannon Unable To Come To Consensus On What...
WASHINGTON, DC—In a tense, fractured and divided Oval Office, Donald Trump, Mike Pence and Steve Bannon are reportedly still in deadlock over what day...
Lady Who Raised 10 Vegan Cats Claims The One That Lived...
Trump Sons Detained At Vancouver Airport Due To Alleged Ties With...
Female Legislators Unveil ‘Male Ejaculation Bill’ Forbidding The Disposal Of Unused...
Updated Mayan Calendar Declares World Will Now End On Jan. 20,...
President Obama Confirms He Will Refuse To Leave Office If Trump...
© Copyright 2017 - The Burrard Street Journal | All rights reserved
