ISIS Leader Calls for American Muslim Voters to Support Hillary Clinton – World News Daily Report
Donald Trump is addicted to penis enlargement pills, claims his ex-wife
India: Sacred Cow Savagely Raped by 27 Men in Mumbai Subway
ISIS Leader Calls for American Muslim Voters to Support Hillary Clinton
Share523K TweetTop ISIS leader now believed to be the number two behind the terrorist organization, Amadh Abu Makmud Al-alwani, put up a video this week following the second presidential debate asking American Muslim voters to support Hillary Clinton.
The controversial video that was taken down by YouTube only hours after it was uploaded showed top ISIS leader Amadh Abu Makmud Al-alwani threatening those who would decide to vote for Donald Trump and calling them “infidels” and “goat f—-ers”.
“ All Muslims who will show support for the dog-faced Trump are guilty of masiya (mortal sin) ”
He also claimed that even if Hillary was a woman and a “two face devil”, had the “charm of a pig” and was “treacherous as the snake”, that the Democratic presidential hopeful was at least in league with the “allied countries of the Islamic state” such as Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar.
Al-alwani also warned all Muslims not to take his warnings lightly and that supporters of Trump would be severely punished on earth and in Jannah (afterlife).
“Trump is a dog, he is the scum of the earth. He boasts that he will take our oil and join Russia, Syria and the Shia Iranians against us in our holy fight” he added, visibly angry.
“This (dog-faced) scumbag must not reach Washington. Although it is a sin to put an inferior being such as a woman into a position of power, it is the true plan of Satan to divide the Muslims of America. It would be dirty and danis (filthy) to vote for Trump,” he explained.
Amadh Abu Makmud Al-alwani has risen as a prominent ISIS leader figure since coalition forces carried out a “precision strike” last August, successfully targeting Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, number two of the terrorist organization at the time.
Donald Trump is addicted to penis enlargement pills, claims his ex-wife
Trump Tweets Taco Bell “To make tacos in the U.S. or face big border taxes”
Canadian Prime Minister and opposition leader share kiss to denounce Orlando massacre
Donald Trump is addicted to penis enlargement pills, claims his ex-wife
India: Sacred Cow Savagely Raped by 27 Men in Mumbai Subway
Kenyan Judge Confirms Obama Could Technically Run for President in 2017 Elections
Yoko Ono: “I Had an Affair with Hillary Clinton in the ’70s”
Man kicked out of all-you-can-eat buffet after eating more than 50 lbs of food, sues for $2-million
‘Little old lady’ Arrested for Making Fur Coats with Neighbor’s Cats
