BREAKING: Another Clinton Associate Set To Testify Against Hillary Found Dead - American News - Breaking News, Political News and Updates
BREAKING: Another Clinton Associate Set To Testify Against Hillary Found Dead
Americans have trouble trusting the Clintons for many reasons, but near the top of the list is the infamous “Clinton kill list,” featuring the names of people close to Hillary and Bill that have died under mysterious circumstances.
Now, it appears that yet another name has been added to this list.
Former U.N. President John Ashe was reportedly found dead last Wednesday. Officials claim he died of a heart attack, but others suspect foul play. The Conservative Tribune reports that local police officers in Dobbs Ferry, New York argue that Ashe died from a workout accident that crushed his throat.
Ashe’s death became even more suspicious when police learned that he was scheduled to be in court Monday with Chinese businessman and co-defendant Ng Lap Seng. Ashe reportedly received $1 billion in donations from Seng during his term as president.
It was later revealed that Seng also illegally funneled several hundred thousand dollars to the Democrat National Committee during Bill’s presidency. An anonymous source told reporters that prosecutors planned to use this link to Ashe to convince him to testify against her.
“It would have been very embarrassing,” the source added. “His death was conveniently timed.”
Of course, conspiracy theorists believe that Ashe is just the latest victim of the Clintons. We wouldn’t put it past them to take down anyone who has damning information against them—and God only knows how long that list is.
What do you think? Do the Clintons belong behind bars and far, far away from the White House?
Orlando Residents Demand Mosque Be Shut Down For Breeding Too Many Terrorists
'Islam Is A Cult, Not A Religion', Country Outright Bans Islam - All Mosques To Be...
Laura Ingraham Shines Spotlight On Backstabbing Traitor Paul Ryan For Setting Healthcare Bill Trap For Trump
Make no mistake—Speaker of the House Paul Ryan is not a friend to President Donald Trump. Recent audio released by Breitbart News made that very clear. In fact, Ryan has…
House Intelligence Chiefs Drop Bombshell… This Is As Bad As It Gets [VIDEO]
Earlier this month, President Donald Trump shocked the nation when he accused Barack Obama of wiretapping Trump Tower during the presidential election last year. He called on the House Intelligent…
Trump Just Got The Best News Of His Presidency Just 45 Days In
Since the beginning of his presidential campaign, Donald Trump promised to bring jobs back into our country. Americans had faith in his experience as a businessman and were optimistic that…
Did You See What Obama Did Immediately After Boarding The Plane [LOOK]
Through his presidency, Barack Obama enjoyed taking vacations to Hawaii funded by American taxpayers. Earlier this week, he boarded his jet to make a surprise trip to the Islands once…
BREAKING: Terror In North Dakota Hits… It’s Happening Sooner Than We Thought
According to reports from The Grand Forks Herald, a local Muslim man was arrested this week after he called police almost 50 times to say he supported ISIS. Mohamed Aweis…
Recent PostsLaura Ingraham Shines Spotlight On Backstabbing Traitor Paul Ryan For Setting Healthcare Bill Trap For TrumpMar 16, 2017House Intelligence Chiefs Drop Bombshell… This Is As Bad As It Gets [VIDEO]Mar 16, 2017Trump Just Got The Best News Of His Presidency Just 45 Days InMar 16, 2017Did You See What Obama Did Immediately After Boarding The Plane [LOOK]Mar 16, 2017BREAKING: Terror In North Dakota Hits… It’s Happening Sooner Than We ThoughtMar 16, 2017
