BREAKING: Another Clinton Associate Set To Testify Against Hillary Found Dead - American News - Breaking News, Political News and Updates
BREAKING: Another Clinton Associate Set To Testify Against Hillary Found Dead
Americans have trouble trusting the Clintons for many reasons, but near the top of the list is the infamous “Clinton kill list,” featuring the names of people close to Hillary and Bill that have died under mysterious circumstances.
Now, it appears that yet another name has been added to this list.
Former U.N. President John Ashe was reportedly found dead last Wednesday. Officials claim he died of a heart attack, but others suspect foul play. The Conservative Tribune reports that local police officers in Dobbs Ferry, New York argue that Ashe died from a workout accident that crushed his throat.
Ashe’s death became even more suspicious when police learned that he was scheduled to be in court Monday with Chinese businessman and co-defendant Ng Lap Seng. Ashe reportedly received $1 billion in donations from Seng during his term as president.
It was later revealed that Seng also illegally funneled several hundred thousand dollars to the Democrat National Committee during Bill’s presidency. An anonymous source told reporters that prosecutors planned to use this link to Ashe to convince him to testify against her.
“It would have been very embarrassing,” the source added. “His death was conveniently timed.”
Of course, conspiracy theorists believe that Ashe is just the latest victim of the Clintons. We wouldn’t put it past them to take down anyone who has damning information against them—and God only knows how long that list is.
What do you think? Do the Clintons belong behind bars and far, far away from the White House?
Orlando Residents Demand Mosque Be Shut Down For Breeding Too Many Terrorists
'Islam Is A Cult, Not A Religion', Country Outright Bans Islam - All Mosques To Be...
Watch What Happens When These Muslims Tried To Force American’s To Submit To Sharia… Big Mistake
This week Chaz Bono, the daughter of Cher and Sonny Bono who now identifies as a man, was outraged when Immigration and Customs Enforcement apprehended the assistant of his housekeeper….
Afghanistan Ambassador Drops Bombshell About Trump And Obama… Here’s The Truth
There is no question that President Donald Trump is shaking things up in this country, providing a very different style of leadership than what we saw under President Barack Obama….
Tucker Carlson Destroys Lib Commentator So Badly She Forgets How To Speak [VIDEO]
Fox News’ Tucker Carlson has been pulling in some amazing ratings in Megyn Kelly’s former time slot with his show. It’s clear that his head-on approach to taking on liberal…
The North East Just Got Devastating News… Please Send Your Prayers
According to recent reports, the Northeast is facing blizzard conditions and up to 2 feet of snow in a storm that is expected to last through Tuesday. “Especially given the…
President Donald Trump has wasted no time cracking down on illegal immigration. Now that he is busy fulfilling his campaign promise, the mainstream media has been trying to portray illegal…
Recent PostsWatch What Happens When These Muslims Tried To Force American’s To Submit To Sharia… Big MistakeMar 13, 2017Afghanistan Ambassador Drops Bombshell About Trump And Obama… Here’s The TruthMar 13, 2017Tucker Carlson Destroys Lib Commentator So Badly She Forgets How To Speak [VIDEO]Mar 13, 2017The North East Just Got Devastating News… Please Send Your PrayersMar 13, 2017Terrifying News Out Of California… Trump Was RightMar 13, 2017
