Sarah Palin To Become The Vice President Running Mate For The 2nd Time - American News - Breaking News, Political News and Updates
Sarah Palin To Become The Vice President Running Mate For The 2nd Time
In a recent interview, former Alaska governor Sarah Palin commented that she isn’t ruling out the possibility of becoming a vice presidential candidate for Donald Trump. Still, she expressed concerns that her position on the campaign trail could do more harm than good.
When asked about the issue on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, Palin called herself a ‘realist’ and acknowledged that a run for office would bring a ton of controversy.
“Well, I want to help and not hurt, and I am such a realist that I realize there are a whole lot of people out there who would say ‘anybody but Palin,’” the former GOP vice presidential nominee commented.
“So, you know, I just – I just want the guy to win,” she added. “I want American to win. And I don’t know if I would be the person that would be able to help him win, Jake.”
Palin did point out, however, that Palin has already had her background investigated ruthlessly.
“I think I’m pretty much as vetted as anybody in the country,” Palin commented. “So, I think there are so many other great people out there in America who can serve in this position. I think if someone wanted to choose me, they already know who I am, what I stand for. They wouldn’t be in for any surprises.”
Palin would be a controversial pick, there is no doubt, but Trump could do a lot worse. She served John McCain well in his 2008 campaign for president.
Palin has an energy that could match Trump’s on the trail, and there is no question that she is a tried and true conservative.
What do you think of Palin? Would she make a good Vice President?
Trump Chosen By God To Stop America's Destruction Astounding 2011 Prophecy
Laura Ingraham Shines Spotlight On Backstabbing Traitor Paul Ryan For Setting Healthcare Bill Trap For Trump
Make no mistake—Speaker of the House Paul Ryan is not a friend to President Donald Trump. Recent audio released by Breitbart News made that very clear. In fact, Ryan has…
House Intelligence Chiefs Drop Bombshell… This Is As Bad As It Gets [VIDEO]
Earlier this month, President Donald Trump shocked the nation when he accused Barack Obama of wiretapping Trump Tower during the presidential election last year. He called on the House Intelligent…
Trump Just Got The Best News Of His Presidency Just 45 Days In
Since the beginning of his presidential campaign, Donald Trump promised to bring jobs back into our country. Americans had faith in his experience as a businessman and were optimistic that…
Did You See What Obama Did Immediately After Boarding The Plane [LOOK]
Through his presidency, Barack Obama enjoyed taking vacations to Hawaii funded by American taxpayers. Earlier this week, he boarded his jet to make a surprise trip to the Islands once…
BREAKING: Terror In North Dakota Hits… It’s Happening Sooner Than We Thought
According to reports from The Grand Forks Herald, a local Muslim man was arrested this week after he called police almost 50 times to say he supported ISIS. Mohamed Aweis…
Recent PostsLaura Ingraham Shines Spotlight On Backstabbing Traitor Paul Ryan For Setting Healthcare Bill Trap For TrumpMar 16, 2017House Intelligence Chiefs Drop Bombshell… This Is As Bad As It Gets [VIDEO]Mar 16, 2017Trump Just Got The Best News Of His Presidency Just 45 Days InMar 16, 2017Did You See What Obama Did Immediately After Boarding The Plane [LOOK]Mar 16, 2017BREAKING: Terror In North Dakota Hits… It’s Happening Sooner Than We ThoughtMar 16, 2017
