Donald Trump: ‘I’ll overturn the shocking gay marriage decision – trust me’ / LGBTQ Nation
Snowed in? This company is offering free help to folks who 'want to get plowed'
How improv helped this 'Whose Line Is It Anyway?' star accept his trans child
Was this Texas lawmaker caught on tape calling a transgender man a 'pervert'?
Brick thrown through the window of a church that stood up for trans people
Some North Carolina lawmakers want to challenge the NCAA's tax status as payback
Feds will give millions to help with Pulse shooting financial aftermath
You'll cringe watching this mother defend skipping her gay son's wedding
Boston St. Patrick's Day parade marshal will march with gay veterans group
Lost friends, public shaming & no job: The great fall of a former NC governor
Queer bars start dumping beer after bizarre marriage equality publicity stunt
Couple holding hands shamed at pizza place, told 'This is Trump's America'
Tell-all book says Dick Clark kept 'American Bandstand' dancers in the closet
Pastor's wife writes touching acceptance letter about her 'beloved' trans child
Sara Gilbert 'comes out' to John Goodman in mini 'Roseanne' reunion
Russian mayor blocks activists from entering, saying town is a 'gay-free zone'
Donald Trump: ‘I’ll overturn the shocking gay marriage decision – trust me’
In a recent interview with Pat Robertson’s television network, Donald Trump blathered that antigay conservatives the world over can rest easy knowing that he’s committed to overturning the Supreme Court’s landmark decision that struck down state bans on same-sex marriage nationwide.
The Christian Broadcasting Network’s David Brody asked the GOP presidential frontrunner what he thought of the Log Cabin Republicans calling him “one of the best, if not the best, pro-gay Republican candidates to ever run for the presidency.”
Told that Evangelicals want to trust his stance on traditional marriage, Trump responded:
“I think they can trust me on traditional marriage… and frankly, I was very much in favor of having the court rule that it goes to states, and let the states decide. And that was a shocking decision for you and for me and for a lot of other people, but I was very much in favor of letting the states decide and that’s the way it looked it was going and then all of a sudden out of nowhere came this very massive decision and they took it away. But I was always in favor of state’s rights; states deciding.”
Lost friends, public shaming & no job: The great fall of a former NC governorPress Secretary Sean Spicer confronted at an Apple Store in viral videoDoes this study show why Hillary Clinton lost?In a sign of the times, dystopian fiction is flying off the shelvesGender neutral bathroom in Portland high school vandalized with death threat
