IT’S OVER: Hillary’s ISIS Email Just Leaked & It’s Worse Than Anyone Could Have Imagined… | EndingFed News Network
IT’S OVER: Hillary’s ISIS Email Just Leaked & It’s Worse Than Anyone Could Have Imagined…
Today Wikileaks released what is, by far, the most devastating leak of the entire campaign.  This makes Trump’s dirty talk video looks like an episode of Barney and Friends.
Even though when Trump called Hillary the ‘founder’ of ISIS he was telling the truth and 100% accurate, the media has never stopped ripping him apart over it.
Today the media is forced to eat their hats because the newest batch of leaked emails show Hillary, in her own words, admitting to doing just that, funding and running ISIS.
John Podesta, Hillary’s campaign chair, who was also a counselor to President Obama at the time, was the recipient of the 2014 email which was released today.
Assange promised his latest batch of leaks would lead to the indictment of Hillary, and it looks like he was not kidding.  The email proves Hillary knew and was complicit in the funding and arming of ISIS by our ‘allies’ Saudi Arabia and Qatar!
“The governments of Qatar and Saudi Arabia, which are providing clandestine financial and logistic support to ISIL…”, Clinton wrote.
The media is yet to report on this, even though Wikileaks has a 10 year history of being 100% accurate in their leaks, never once releasing info that proved to be false.
Maybe it has something to do with the fact that The Saudi’s brag about funding 20% of Hillary’s Presidential campaign, and along with Qatar, are among the largest donors to the CLINTON FOUNDATION.
Is it any mystery now why ISIS has flourished under the Obama/Clinton administration? The United States has created armed and funded the terrorists overthrowing Syria via our Terrorist State allies.  When you know this it makes you look at the situation in Syria differently.  Perhaps Russia and Iran are the ones fighting ISIS, it stands to reason once you know we are fighting Russia, and at the same time arming ISIS.
Clinton’s campaign and her Clinton Foundation are literally funded by the SAME PEOPLE who are funding ISIS and killing hundreds of thousands of innocents in the Middle East, and now, even here at home.
This is nothing short of TREASON.  Hillary must be sent to trial and held accountable for crimes against humanity and Treason against the United States of America.
We know the media will do all in their power to bury this story so it is up to us to use social media to make sure every voter in America knows this before they cast their vote for president on Nov 8th.  You know what to do …
If you haven’t checked out and liked our Facebook page, please go here and do so.
Older PostBenghazi Hero Asks Killary To Answer the ONE Question She Fears The Most
RECENTReport: Obama to Free Gitmo Detainees Who Have Vowed to Behead AmericansJanuary 6, 2017Tucker demolishes Russian rigged election assumption with just one questionJanuary 4, 2017WATCH – Obama’s ‘Muslim Army’ Is Hiding In America, Waiting To Do UNTHINKABLE When Trump Takes OfficeJanuary 3, 2017Chicago Ex-Gang Member: Feds Have Been Dropping of ‘Crates of Guns’ into Urban Communities for…January 3, 2017Illegal Deported 19 Times Raped 13-Year-Old Girl On Bus – Jeh Johnson, Obama GuiltyJanuary 3, 2017Trey Gowdy Kicks Obama Out The Door With Brutal Message About His Presidency, You’ll Love ItJanuary 3, 2017Breaking: Leaked Audio Of John Kerry Just Exposed The Truth About Obama and ISISJanuary 3, 2017College Kids Demand ‘Counseling’ After Being Traumatized From Seeing Single Confederate Flag StickerJanuary 3, 2017After Calling For Quick Confirmations Under Obama, Democrats Are Now Threatening TrumpJanuary 3, 2017Obama Administration Attacked By Democrats Over U.N. Israeli ResolutionJanuary 3, 2017CALENDAR
Report: Obama to Free Gitmo Detainees Who Have Vowed to Behead Americans
WATCH – Obama’s ‘Muslim Army’ Is Hiding In America, Waiting To Do UNTHINKABLE When Trump Takes Office
Chicago Ex-Gang Member: Feds Have Been Dropping of ‘Crates of Guns’ into Urban Communities for…
ARTICLESThis shows that Trump really is stepping up his delegate gameApril 25, 2016French President GROWS A PAIR And Says One Thing About Islam That Obama WON’T AdmitJuly 17, 2016Judge: US Intelligence Likely Leaked DNC Emails, Not RussiansDecember 14, 2016CALENDAR
