Rupaul claims Trump touched him inappropriately in the 1990s – World News Daily Report
Donald Trump is addicted to penis enlargement pills, claims his ex-wife
India: Sacred Cow Savagely Raped by 27 Men in Mumbai Subway
Share301K TweetThe famous drag queen, actor and recording artist Rupaul, claims that Donald Trump grabbed his ass and genitals during a party in 1995.
In an exclusive interview with the Hollywood Inquirer, Rupaul said that Mr Trump “made a move” on him during an event celebrating the release of the movie To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything! Julie Newmar.
The artist was wearing his full drag queen apparel at the time, and he says Trump clearly mistook him for a real woman.
“I had just come out of the bathroom when Trump jumped on me and kissed me”, he explained. “He started grabbing my ass and pulled my dress up to grab my genitals. He suddenly became very angry. He started yelling and cursing, and he left the party.”
Rupaul says he was dressed “very sexy” for the party and is convinced that Trump thought he was a woman.
Rupaul says he found Donald Trump attractive before this incident, but that he was shocked by his rudeness and vulgarity.
Rupaul told the Hollywood Inquirer that Donald Trump moved on him during a party, grabbing his ass and genitals.
“He just wanted to use me as an object,” he told Hollywood Inquirer. “I’ve never felt so dirty in my life! In a way, I was saved by the fact that I’m a man.”
This allegation from Rupaul adds to the wave of accusations of inappropriate sexual behavior concerning Donald Trump.
Many women have come forward over the last week to denounce the abusive groping and sexual harassment they suffered from Trump over the years.
The New York Times published an article earlier this week, in which Trumps’s alleged victims described the mistreatment they suffered.
All these allegations came after Trump bragged about kissing, groping and trying to have sex with women who were not his wife on recordings from 2005 obtained by The Washington Post and NBC News.
The comments were part of a conversation with Billy Bush, then a host of the television show “Access Hollywood.”
The remarks were captured by a live microphone that Trump did not appear to know was recording their conversation.
“You know I’m automatically attracted to beautiful — I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait,” Trump said. “And when you’re a star they let you do it. You can do anything.”
He added: “Grab them by the pussy. You can do anything.”
In Rupaul’s case, Trump seems to have been disappointed by what he discovered under the dress.
Arkansas: 14-year old girl expelled from high school for saying that Adam and Eve never existed
Donald Trump is addicted to penis enlargement pills, claims his ex-wife
India: Sacred Cow Savagely Raped by 27 Men in Mumbai Subway
Kenyan Judge Confirms Obama Could Technically Run for President in 2017 Elections
Yoko Ono: “I Had an Affair with Hillary Clinton in the ’70s”
Man kicked out of all-you-can-eat buffet after eating more than 50 lbs of food, sues for $2-million
‘Little old lady’ Arrested for Making Fur Coats with Neighbor’s Cats
