BREAKING: Fraudulent Clinton Votes Discovered By The “Tens Of Thousands” | EndingFed News Network
Election officials in Franklin County, Ohio are reportedly stumped over what one maintenance worker found in a dilapidated downtown Columbus warehouse earlier this week.
According to sources, Randall Prince, a Columbus-area electrical worker, was doing a routine check of his companies wiring and electrical systems when he stumbled across approximately one dozen black, sealed ballot boxes filled with thousands of Franklin County votes for Hillary Clinton and other Democrat candidates.
“No one really goes in this building.  It’s mainly used for short-term storage by a commercial plumber,” Prince said.
So when Prince, who is a Trump supporter, saw several black boxes in an otherwise empty room, he went to investigate.  What he found could allegedly be evidence of a massive operation designed to deliver Clinton the crucial swing state.
Early voting does not begin in Ohio until October 12, so no votes have officially been castin the Buckeye state.  However, inside these boxes were, what one source described as, “potentially tens of thousands of votes” for Hillary Clinton.
Christian Times Newspaper has not yet been able to obtain a photocopy of one of the ballots found inside the box, but an affiliate in Ohio passed along a replica of what was found.
It is important to note that the above replica coincides with a ballot that a Franklin County voter would cast at the polling place on Election Day, meaning the Clinton campaign’s likely goal was to slip the fake ballot boxes in with the real ballot boxes when they went to official election judges on November 8th.
Ohio, a perennial swing state in the presidential election, has been a challenge for Clinton and her Democrat counterparts in 2016.  Many national Democrat groups have pulled funding from the state entirely, in order to redirect it to places in which they are doing better.
Clinton herself has spent less time in Ohio, and spent less money, in recent weeks as it has appeared that Trump will carry the crucial state.
With this find, however, it now appears that Clinton and the Democrat Party planned on stealing the state on Election Day, making any campaigning there now a waste of time.
This story is still developing, and CTN will bring you more when we have it.
If you haven’t checked out and liked our Facebook page, please go here and do so.
Older PostFormer Miss Wisconsin reveals message Donald Trump sent her while she was on the verge of dying
RECENTReport: Obama to Free Gitmo Detainees Who Have Vowed to Behead AmericansJanuary 6, 2017Tucker demolishes Russian rigged election assumption with just one questionJanuary 4, 2017WATCH – Obama’s ‘Muslim Army’ Is Hiding In America, Waiting To Do UNTHINKABLE When Trump Takes OfficeJanuary 3, 2017Chicago Ex-Gang Member: Feds Have Been Dropping of ‘Crates of Guns’ into Urban Communities for…January 3, 2017Illegal Deported 19 Times Raped 13-Year-Old Girl On Bus – Jeh Johnson, Obama GuiltyJanuary 3, 2017Trey Gowdy Kicks Obama Out The Door With Brutal Message About His Presidency, You’ll Love ItJanuary 3, 2017Breaking: Leaked Audio Of John Kerry Just Exposed The Truth About Obama and ISISJanuary 3, 2017College Kids Demand ‘Counseling’ After Being Traumatized From Seeing Single Confederate Flag StickerJanuary 3, 2017After Calling For Quick Confirmations Under Obama, Democrats Are Now Threatening TrumpJanuary 3, 2017Obama Administration Attacked By Democrats Over U.N. Israeli ResolutionJanuary 3, 2017CALENDAR
Report: Obama to Free Gitmo Detainees Who Have Vowed to Behead Americans
WATCH – Obama’s ‘Muslim Army’ Is Hiding In America, Waiting To Do UNTHINKABLE When Trump Takes Office
Chicago Ex-Gang Member: Feds Have Been Dropping of ‘Crates of Guns’ into Urban Communities for…
ARTICLESEight States Have Passed Laws Voiding Obama’s Gun-grabbing MeasuresJuly 12, 2016Every Single Thing In Hillary’s DNC Speech Was BULLS**TJuly 29, 2016Wikileaks Founder Promises That Hillary’s Campaign Will END In October With One MAJOR BOMBSHELLAugust 9, 2016CALENDAR
