Canada Ready to Receive 250,000 American Refugees in case Trump is Elected President – World News Daily Report
Donald Trump is addicted to penis enlargement pills, claims his ex-wife
India: Sacred Cow Savagely Raped by 27 Men in Mumbai Subway
Canada Ready to Receive 250,000 American Refugees in case Trump is Elected President
Share41K TweetOttawa | Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is getting prepared to accommodate nearly 250,000 American refugees if Donald Trump is to be elected US president in November.
The Prime Minister was keen to stress the possibility of a mass exodus of American citizens on Canadian soil in case the controversial Republican candidate for the US presidency wins his presidential election.
“ In the event of a mass exodus of American citizens, Canada will always be a hospitable country for people persecuted or fleeing difficult living conditions ”
“We reach out to refugees of all countries living under dictatorships and persecution,” he reiterated during a press conference this morning.
Immigration Minister, the Honorable John McCallum, expects up to 1,000,000 American refugees by 2017 if Donald Trump is elected president
Immigration Canada claims to have received more than 350,000 requests for information on Canadian citizenship status since Super Tuesday when Donald Trump won several important states.
“The more Trump advances, the more we are overwhelmed,” assures spokesperson for Immigration Canada, Amanda Singh. “Our whole 2016 budget is already gone since it was necessary to enroll extra workforce to successfully process all applications and even then, it is far from sufficient for the task” she admits, visibly under stress. “But Ottawa has promised us its full cooperation on this question,” she assured.
Several celebrities including Miley Cyrus, Macaulay Culkin and Nicolas Cage have threatened to leave the country in case of a victory by Donald Trump.
“If Trump is elected, it makes me sad, but I have no choice,” commented Miley Cyrus to the Rolling Stones magazine this week.
“I could never live under a president like him, it would be like living under the Soviet dictatorship of Hitler,” she explained.
According to information confirmed by the Hollywood Inquirer this week, a number of celebrities such as Miley Cyrus and Kanye West have shown interest in purchasing houses in the Toronto area and have already contacted real estate agents in the region.
Thousands of Somalian Camels Denied Entry to USA because of Muslim Ban
ISIS Leader Calls for American Muslim Voters to Support Hillary Clinton
Donald Trump is addicted to penis enlargement pills, claims his ex-wife
India: Sacred Cow Savagely Raped by 27 Men in Mumbai Subway
Kenyan Judge Confirms Obama Could Technically Run for President in 2017 Elections
Yoko Ono: “I Had an Affair with Hillary Clinton in the ’70s”
Man kicked out of all-you-can-eat buffet after eating more than 50 lbs of food, sues for $2-million
‘Little old lady’ Arrested for Making Fur Coats with Neighbor’s Cats
